parallel to optimize the reaction conditions. Remarkably, the MOBO approach achieved an optimal AMA yield of 99% and a productivity of 0.64 g/hour within a limited collection and equation fitting, the intrinsic kinetic modeling approach yielded a similar

optimal AMA yield but a higher productivity of 1.13 g/hour, attributed to increased catalyst usage. Our findings indicate that while MOBO offers a more efficient route

concentrations of MNA and AMA through the ANN model. The conversion of the MNA (ConversionMNA), the yield of the AMA (YieldAMA), and the productivity of the AMA (ProductivityMNA) in the continuous flow hydrogenation system were calculated

MOBO was applied to optimize four key reaction parameters (Figure 2): reaction MNA solution flow rate (𝐹MNA), to maximize yield and productivity. Initially, Latin Hypercube Sampling (LHS) was used to create four sets of experimental conditions,

continued to make further recommendations. This process was repeated iteratively until the desired levels of yield and productivity were reached. Ultimately, this method led to the identification of the optimal experimental parameters located on the Pareto Front,

MPa and 100 ˚C, respectively. The solubility of MNA in methanol dictated its concentration limit, setting the upper boundary at 0.25 mL/min. The residence time,

crucial for reaction completion, was adjusted by modulating the solution's flow rate. An excessively high flow rate could result in undue pressure build-up within the reactor tubes, while a markedly low flow rate might increase the gas phase's proportion,

points in the upper right corner indicate the best balance between yield and productivity, showing nearly 99% yield and 0.64 g/hour productivity. The conclusive set of experimental parameters and results, which includes three sets capable of attaining

the preferred reaction parameter values as determined by MOBO for enhancing both yield and productivity. Notably, optimal reaction temperatures are concentrated around the upper boundary of 100 ˚C, suggesting a preference for higher temperatures to

parameters obtained in the previous round as the initial training set. The reaction temperature and hydrogen pressure were fixed at 100 ˚C and 0.5 MPa, respectively, acknowledging the positive correlation of high temperature and the optimization

objectives and the negligible impact of hydrogen pressure. The exploration ranges for concentration and flow rate were narrowed to 0.0770-0.0884 mol/L and 0.8036-0.9227 mL/min, aiming for a thorough investigation of this refined reaction space. After 10

iterations, the results (Table S3) show that an additional four sets of experimental parameters are able to achieve the same optimal yield and productivity as the original three sets. Mapping these seven optimal sets of experimental data onto the reaction

equations (ODEs) were solved using the ODE45 function. We fitted the kinetic models to the experimental data obtained at the reaction temperatures of 30 ˚C (303.15 K), 40 ˚C (313.15 K), 50 ˚C (323.15 K), and 60 ˚C (333.15 K), with the results of these fittings

represented on the Z axis and the productivity illustrated through a color map (Figure 8). While it is feasible to attain a yield nearing 99% at a lower concentration and reduced the yellow area in Figure 8—requires an increase in both the mean residence time and

MNA concentration. Under these optimized conditions, it is possible to achieve both a yield and productivity of up to 99% and 1.13 g/hour, respectively. The results predicted by the kinetic model at the optimized conditions were all confirmed by experimental

productivity of 0.64 g/hour, respectively. Conversely, kinetic modeling achieved a similar optimal yield (~99%) but attained higher productivity (1.13 g/hour). The variation in optimal productivity was attributed to the distinct strategies for

manipulating the residence time of the two approaches. MOBO modulated the residence time by adjusting the solution's flow rate, keeping the catalyst mass constant within the MPBR. This approach was favored because MOBO was implemented in an

phenomena (e.g., mass transfer, solute diffusion, flow dynamics) minimally impact the reaction, does not permit free variation of the flow rate but requires adjustment of the aExperimental conditions for data collection: 𝑇bath (100 ˚C), 𝑃H2 (0.5 MPa). bExperimental conditions for

approach provided a comprehensive understanding of how variations in parameters affect the reaction results. Simultaneous optimization of yield and productivity was also achieved by leveraging the response surfaces generated from the kinetic model.

