entire system was purged with a 10% C2H2/Ar gas mixture and pressurized to 3 bar. The capillary reactor, immersed in an oil bath, was then heated to the target temperature (e.g., 80 °C). At this stage, a reference mass spectrometry signal (Ig) was acquired for the pure acetylene/argon mixture to establish the baseline for zero conversion. Subsequently, the liquid catalyst was introduced by a syringe pump (Smart Microfluidics, Southern Federal University) to establish a Taylor flow regime [25], characterized by alternating gas and liquid segments. The gas flow was controlled via EL- FLOW mass-flow controllers (Bronkhorst High-Tech B.V, Ruurlo, the Netherlands). The gas phase after separation was continuously analyzed by mass spectrometry (Pfeiffer Vacuum + Fab Solutions, Aßlar, Germany) (Ig+l). Acetylene

To systematically evaluate the influence of key reaction parameters, we conducted a series of experiments varying reaction temperature and liquid-phase flow rate while main- taining constant gas flow conditions. The reaction tempera- ture was varied from 60 °C to 100 °C at a fixed pressure of 3 bar and constant gas and fluid flow rates (2 and 0.045 mL/ min, respectively). The acetylene conversion grew mono- tonically as the temperature increased (Fig. 6). The tempera- ture of 80 °C was selected as the optimal setting for further optimization of the other reaction parameters. At this tem- perature, acetylene conversion is high enough for detection, while the selectivity for vinyl iodide remains almost 100% [10]. The apparent activation energy of acetylene hydroio- dination reaction obtained from the temperature depen- dence of acetylene conversion (Fig. 12) was found to be of 27.3 ± 1.9 kJ*mol–1.

transfer and residence time. The point with lowest conver- sion 2.33% in panel a) is characterized by smallest mass transfer coefficient. On contrary experiments with highest conversion can be characterized with optimal mass transfer values. Results in Fig. 8 indicate that shorter gas segments provided highest efficiency. This can be explained both by the increased residence time and better replacement of the fresh gas atmosphere near liquid interface.

tant exposure within the reactor, serves as a parameter gov- erning conversion efficiency. It is influenced by both the liquid and gas flow rates. As evidenced by the flow rate dependence studies (see Sect. 4, ESI †) conversion effi- ciency decreases systematically with increasing liquid flow rate due to reduced contact time. The optimal flow rates are those that achieve a balance between maximizing conver- sion and minimizing the residence time, representing an effi- cient and productive process. In this case the optimal value of overall mass transfer coefficient is 0.12. The optimal resi- dence time was found to be about 7 min, which ensured high acetylene conversion for not too long exposure time.

The synthesis of vinyl iodide and (E, E)-1,4-diiodobuta- 1,3-diene has been successfully transferred into microflu- idic regime. The implementation of Bayesian optimization provided efficient optimization of the reaction parameters inside coil reactor and increased overall acetylene con- version to 23.5 ± 0.8% for vinyl iodide within less than 10 min. C2H2 conversion increased with larger liquid seg- ments and shorter gas segment length with the higher val- ues achieved when the length of the gas segment was about triple the length of the liquid counterpart. The overall mass transfer coefficient at the optimal conditions was 0.12. The

