For the polymerization process, the transport of aniline from the organic phase to the aqueous phase needed to approach and then cross the organic-aqueous interface, which was strongly dependent on the volumetric flow rate ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase (q). To investigate the eﬀect of the volumetric flow rate ratio on the mass transfer and the polymerization process, the total volumetric flow rate (Qtotal) was fixed at 0.5 ml/min in the capillary microreactor with the residence time of 95 s at 35 °C. Fig. 11 exhibits the photos of slug flow captured at the front part of the capillary microreactor with the var- iation of q. The dispersed phase slug length (Ls) increased with the in- crease of q. Typically, the length of the dispersed phase slug in a mi- crochannel is dependent on the volumetric flow rate ratio and physical properties of the two immiscible liquid phases. A modified capillary number (Ca*) can be introduced to reflect the eﬀects of the viscosity and the interfacial tension between the two immiscible liquid phases in the generation of the dispersed phase slug: [71]

Reynolds number (Re) is an important dimensionless parameter for predicting flow mechanics/patterns under diﬀerent conditions [28,32]. To evaluate variations of the mass transfer and the polymerization process with diﬀerent Reynolds numbers, the total volumetric flow rate was changed while maintaining the volumetric flow rate ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase and the residence time constant (q = Qaq: Qorg = 2, and t = 95 s) under 35 °C. This was realized by ap- plying capillary microreactors with various lengths. The mean Reynolds number of the organic and aqueous phases (ReM) was calculated based on the pseudo-homogeneous model: [28]

ReM the mean Reynolds number of the organic and aqueous phases, 1 T the polymerization temperature, °C t residence time, s uM the superficial velocity of the liquid phase, m/s x the conversion of aniline, 1

Ca* the modified capillary number, 1 CAN the concentration of aniline in the organic phase, mol/L Coxi the concentration of oxidant in the organic phase, mol/L Cp the concentration of PANI in the aqueous phase, mol/L CHCl,0 the initial concentration of hydrochloric acid in the aqu- eous phase, mol/L Corg,0 the concentration of aniline in the organic phase at the microreactor inlet, mol/L Corg,1 the concentration of aniline in the organic phase at the microreactor outlet, mol/L di the inner diameter of the capillary microreactor, mm E the mass transfer enhancement factor, 1 DAN the diﬀusivity of aniline, cm2/s Ha Hatta number, 1 K overall mean mass transfer coeﬃcient, m/s Ka overall volumetric mean mass transfer coeﬃcient, 1/s k the reaction constant, L/(mol·s) Lf the liquid film length, m Ls the dispersed phase slug length, m Q the volumetric flow rate of the liquid phase, ml/min q the volumetric flow rate ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase, 1 Re Reynolds number, 1

The reaction rate is usually strongly dependent on the temperature that should be well controlled for highly exothermic polymerization processes. The eﬀect of the temperature on the PANI synthesis in mi- croreactors was investigated with the residence time of 95 s at constant volumetric flow rates of the aqueous phase and the organic phase. As shown in Fig. 3, the increase of the polymerization temperature sig- nificantly improved the yield of PANI. For example, the PANI yield was increased from 2.9% to 82.1% with the polymerization temperature increasing from 15 °C to 40 °C. It demonstrated that the increase of the

and chemical industry has gained increasing attention [1–7]. Micro- reactors have numerous advantages, such as larger specific surface area, higher mixing eﬃciency, faster heat and mass transfer rates, enhanced

where di is the inner diameter of the capillary microreactor, uM is the superficial velocity, μM is the mean viscosity of the two immiscible li- quid phases.

The continuous synthesis of polyaniline was realized in capillary microreactors within liquid-liquid slug flow through the chemical oxi- dative polymerization method. The eﬀects of various factors on the polymerization process in microreactors were investigated, and the hydrodynamics and the mass transfer associated with the polymeriza- tion were characterized. The high-speed CCD camera facilitated the direct observation of the mass transfer and polymerization processes in capillary microreactors. Higher reaction temperature was beneficial for intensifying the mass transfer and accelerating the polymerization process. The yield of PANI in the capillary microreactor could reach 82.1% at the residence time of 95 s and the reaction temperature of 40 °C. The initial HCl concentration aﬀected the protonation rate of PANI and thus the mass transfer during the polymerization. Higher HCl concentration was found to be beneficial for reducing the production of oligomers and obtaining higher PANI yield. The mass transfer in the polymerization was enhanced with the increase of Reynolds number. However, the slug coalescence tended to become serious with the fur- ther increase of Reynolds number, which was unfavorable for the mass transfer and the polymerization. A correlation was developed for pre- dicting the dispersed phase slug size in the microreactor with a relative deviation of ± 10%. The increase in the volumetric ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase provided larger specific interfacial area for the mass transfer and resulted in higher PANI yield. Furthermore, the Hatta numbers with respect to both the initiation and propagation stages increased with the increase of the aniline con- version during the polymerization, indicating that the mass transfer limitation became higher as the polymerization proceeded. The eﬀect of the mass transfer limitation on the polymerization mainly existed in the initiation stage. The values of Hai and Hap were found to be lower than 0.3 before the aniline conversion reached 85%. It illustrated that the mass transfer limitation was trivial and the polymerization process took place in the bulk of the aqueous phase when the aniline conversion was lower than 85%. However, with the aniline conversion further in- creasing, the mass transfer limitation became obvious and the inter- facial reactions could not be neglected. Compared with batch reactors, microreactors provide much higher mass transfer rate to reach more uniform reaction conditions for the aniline polymerization process, i.e., the interfacial polymerization in batch reactors could be easily trans- formed to the polymerization process occurring in the bulk phase when applying microreactors. The calculation of the mass transfer enhance- ment factor indicated that the polymerization could enhance the mass transfer process significantly.

The hydrodynamics and mass transfer performance in the chemical oxidative polymerization of aniline in ca- pillary microreactors within the liquid-liquid slug flow regime were investigated. Higher reaction temperature, higher HCl concentration and larger volumetric flow rate ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase im- proved the mass transfer performance and thus led to higher yield of polyaniline. Internal recirculation in the dispersed phase slugs was captured by high-speed camera, which was beneficial for the mass transfer en- hancement in the polymerization process. The polyaniline yield reached 82.1% in the microreactor at the re- sidence time of 95 s and the temperature of 40 °C. The slug coalescence became significant with increasing Reynolds number, thus reducing the mass transfer rate. Moreover, both Hatta number and mass transfer en- hancement factor were evaluated to further characterize the mass transfer mechanism and reflect the compe- tition between the mass transfer and the reaction during the polymerization.

3.4. Eﬀect of the volumetric flow rate ratio of aqueous phase to organic phase on the polymerization

