The general laboratory process developments were carried out in microchannel reactors. TFMB (7.57 M, ﬂow rate of 0.4−1.0 mL·min−1) and a solution of fuming nitric acid in concentrated sulfuric acid (2.49−3.19 M, ﬂow rate of 0.8− 2.2 mL·min−1) were delivered by two syringe pumps (TYD01- 02, Lead Fluid), respectively. The ﬂuids reacted in capillaries with a length deﬁned by the desired residence times and ﬂow rates. The reaction temperature was controlled by a thermostat (F12-ME refrigerated/heating circulator, Julabo). The precool- ing unit, micromixer, microchannel reactor, and microneutral- izer were all made up of stainless steel with an inner diameter being 0.6 mm, and immerged in the thermostat to obtain a uniform reaction temperature. At the outlet, the reaction was quenched by a large amount of water ﬂow (10 mL·min−1). The product was collected into a small beaker containing ice deionized water and separated via a separatory funnel.

A faster ﬂow rate would result in a better mixing eﬀect, which can make the organic compound more evenly dispersed in the acid phase. Besides, a faster ﬂow rate would also decrease the residence time. Therefore, a faster ﬂow rate could reduce the occurrence of dinitration. 2.1.6. Eﬀect of Reactor Structure. Considering that the nitration processes were limited by the mass transfer in microchannel systems, the method of packing microparticles (micro packed-bed reactor) was taken up to intensify mass transfer process between the mixed acid and compound TFMB in microchannel system. In our previous work, it was found that better mixing and reaction performance could be obtained in the packed microchannel system because of its excellent mass transfer performance.7c,16 In this section, the reaction system consisted of a microchannel reactor (length 0.1 m, inner diameter 0.6 mm) and a packed tubular reactor (length 0.3 m, inner diameter 6 mm).

TFMB (7.57 M, ﬂow rate of 10−20 mL·min−1) and a solution of fuming nitric acid in concentrated sulfuric acid (3.19 M, ﬂow rate of 24−39 mL·min−1) were pumped into microreactor by two metering pumps (P1, P2, SSI, USA), respectively. The temperature of the microreactor was controlled by the microchannel heat exchanger which is integrated in the microreactor system. Then the mixed solution was introduced into the tubular packed reactor, which was put into a sink contained the cold sodium chloride solution (15%, −9 °C) to maintain the reaction temperature. At the outlet, the product was collected into product tank (3 L) containing ice deionized water and then separated via a separatory funnel. The organic phase was washed with saturated NaHCO3 solution and deionized water for several times.

The highest conversion (99.6%) of reactant was obtained in the microchannel coupled with tubular reactor system at the condition of N/S = 0.25, N/F = 1.1, φ = 97 wt %, T = 273 K, Qor = 0.4 mL·min−1, and Qaq = 0.9 mL· min−1, with the selectivity of o-NB, m-NB, p-NB, and DNB being 7.26%, 0.08%, 90.97%, and 1.04%, respectively. Encouraged by the lab-scale results, the scale-up of the nitration of TFMB with several strategies were performed. A 0.99 kg/h throughput was achieved in the microreactor coupled with distributed packed tubal reactor system, with the selectivity of main products being 98.13% and byproducts being limited below 1.42% (0.08% of m-NB and 1.34% of DNB).

Process Development and Scale-up of the Continuous Flow Nitration of Triﬂuoromethoxybenzene Zhenghui Wen,†,‡ Fengjun Jiao,† Mei Yang,† Shuainan Zhao,†,‡ Feng Zhou,†,‡ and Guangwen Chen*,† †Dalian National Laboratory for Clean Energy, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, China ‡University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China * S Supporting Information ABSTRACT: In this work, continuous ﬂow nitration of triﬂuoromethoxybenzene (TFMB) was conducted in a microchannel reactor. The eﬀects of process parameters, including temperature, residence time, sulfuric acid strength, ﬂow rate, and reactor structure, were systemically investigated. It was found that the aforementioned process parameters had signiﬁcant eﬀect on TFMB conversion, while the product selectivity was merely sensitive to the reaction temperature. On the basis of the results of process parameter optimization, a scale-up strategy combining microreactor with distributed packed tubular reactor was presented. Consequently, excellent performance was achieved in the combined reactor with a kilogram-scale production. 1. INTRODUCTION

The quartz sand microparticles with an average size of 710 μm were packed in the tubular reactor at a porosity of 0.39. It is observed from Figure 7a that TFMB is totally converted at the low ﬂow rate and then the conversion decreases directly with the increasing ﬂow rate. Given such a low volume of the microreactor system, multiply increasing ﬂow rates lead to a shorter residence time which is not enough for the full nitration of TFMB. The eﬀect of the ﬂow rate on product selectivities in a packed microchannel system are presented in Figure 7b, c, which are similar to the results mentioned in former section. What is diﬀerent is that the variation of the product selectivities in this section is larger than that of former section, which also indicates that packing microparticles poses a challenge to the heat transfer in microchannel reactor.

with the conversion of TFMB being 99.6%. The results showed that the microreactor coupled with distributed packed tubular reactor could conduct the continuous ﬂow nitration of TFMB well with a good performance. The precise control of temperature distribution and the eﬃcient mixing in micro- reactor ensured the nitration reaction proceeded at a fast rate and minimized the formation of the byproducts compared to that in a batch system. 3. CONCLUSION In summary, experiments were performed to study the eﬀects of reaction parameters in the process development of the continuous ﬂow nitration of TFMB thoroughly. The conversion and selectivity of the products were investigated by changing various parameters, including residence time, reaction temperature, sulfuric acid strength, molar ratio, ﬂow rate, and reactor structure.

Therefore, the selectivity of m- NB and DNB should be controlled as low as possible to cut the cost of the separation. The objective was to minimize the byproduct selectivity (m-NB < 0.1%, DNB < 1.5%) without decline of the product yield, which could bring signiﬁcant economic beneﬁts in saving costs of downstream separation and products puriﬁcation. First, the eﬀects of process parameters on the conversion of TFMB and product selectivity were investigated in detail. The best performance in terms of yield and selectivity was obtained by means of process optimization. Subsequently, on the basis of the results of process development, a scale-up strategy which combined a multichannel microreactor with a distributed packed tubular reactor was proposed, and kilogram-scale production was achieved in the combined reactor. 2. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 2.1. Process Development. 2.1.1. Eﬀect of the Reaction Temperature. The reaction temperature plays a signiﬁcant role in the process of nitration reaction.

The mixture then ﬂowed through the microreactor which was cooled by running water. After the quick mixing in microreactor Figure 7. Eﬀect of ﬂow rate on the (a) conversion of TFMB and (b, c) product selectivity in a packed microchannel system. N/S = 0.25, N/F = 1.1, φ = 97 wt %, T = 273 K. Organic Process Research & Development Article DOI: 10.1021/acs.oprd.7b00291 Org. Process Res. Dev. 2017, 21, 1843−1850 1847

91.08% of p-NB, 7.05% of o-NB, and only trace of m-NB (0.08%) and DNB (1.34%) were obtained, Figure 8. Schematic setup of strategy A for the scale up of the continuous ﬂow TFMB nitration. (a) 3D model of setup of strategy A (b) cutaway picture of packed tubular reactor (red blocks represent packed microparticles). Table 1. Screen of the Size of the Packed Particle on the Scale up of the Continuous Flow Nitration of TFMB GC mol % entry TFMB p-NB o-NB m-NB DNB conversion 1a 0.06 89.75 6.90 0.11 3.17 99.94 2b 0.00 91.32 6.69 0.08 1.90 100.0 3c 4.71 87.52 6.58 0.07 1.12 95.29 aCondition: All coilers were packed with the Φ2 × 2 cylindrical quartz sand.

