Abstract Phenylhydroxylamine (PHA) derivatives are key chemical intermediates of nitrogen-containing organic compounds, however, their selective synthesis is challenging. Using Bayesian optimization, we attempted to streamline the reaction conditions for synthesizing PHAs in a microreactor to improve the yield of the target compound. Based on the results obtained in our previous work, the photored

few experiments, as it enables the prediction of subsequent experimental conditions [46, 47]. This optimization method is attractive because of its applicability [48–52] to synthe- sis in a flow reactor. Although there are a few examples of Bayesian optimization or machine-learning techniques in flow photoreactions [53, 54], we are not aware of any reports concerning the reduction of nitrobenzene.

First, we performed Bayesian optimization of this photore- duction using a slug-flow reaction. The synthesis of 4-chlo- rophenylhydroxylamine (2) from 4-chloro nitrobenzene (1) was carried out in two phases using water and ethyl acetate. The substrate, catalyst (Eosin Y), and triethanolamine were dissolved separately in each solvent (Fig. 1). Five experi- mental parameters were set: substrate conc

for producing PHA in a microreactor [40]. This method is based on previous reports describing the efficient photore- duction of nitrobenzene to azoxybenzene with high selec- tivity under flow conditions in a microreactor [41, 42]. The high efficiency and selectivity of the reaction are attributed to the short irradiation distance in the reactor and high mix- ing efficiency, achieved through flow r

initial conditions and analyzed the crude material using 1H NMR spectroscopy. The products obtained were 2, 1, 4,4′- bis (chloro) azoxybenzene (3) and 4-chloroaniline (4). Since the sum of the yields was less than 100%, other byprod- ucts were generated, as indicated by various small peaks in the aromatic region. The initial five conditions yielded 2 in varying amounts (8–83%), with highest yield 

formed with the data obtained from the initial conditions to predict the next experimental conditions aimed at achieving a yield greater than 90% (Table 2, entries 6 and 7). Although the reaction performed under the conditions proposed by the first GPR, yielded 2 at 56%, the reaction proposed by GPR using data from entries 1–6 predicted a 97% yield. Only seven experiments were conducted to achieve

tions for obtaining PHAs in a microreactor under slug flow to improve the yield of the target compound. Moreover, we elucidated the reason for synthesizing PHAs with high selectivity through additional experiments, measurements, and calculations. Furthermore, to optimize the appropriate reaction conditions, Bayesian optimization was applied in a

Flow-chemistry process development: A flow-based synthesis of PHA was optimized using nitrosobenzene as the starting material. The key reactants included Eosin Y and ethyl acetate. The reactor type used was a microreactor with ID 100 µm, operating at a temperature of 25°C. The critical conditions were: flow rate (A), residence time (tR), temperature (T), pressure (P). The outcomes showed high conversion and yield rates for PHA synthesis under optimized conditions.

Next, we attempted to elucidate why this reaction enables the selective production of PHA. The proposed reaction mechanism (Scheme 1) suggests that PHA was directly obtained from nitrosobenzene. Nitrosobenzene was reduced yield of 2 (%)a recov. of 1 (%)a yield of 3 (%)a yield of 4 (%)a aDetermined by 1H-NMR measurement using 1,3,5-trimethoxybenzene as an internal standard

To confirm the advantages of the flow reactor, a compari- son was made between the flow reactor and batch reactor. Glass flasks were used as batch reactors, and the experiment was conducted under the optimal conditions used in the flow reactor (Scheme 2). The target compound was obtained in 89% yield with 5% azoxybenzene and 5% aniline as byprod- ucts. Considering that the product was synthesized 

14 m tubes; 5.1 m (307 tips) for 27 m tubes). The way of photoirradiation is the same as our previous paper [41]. Reaction mixture was separated by a separator (Zaiput Flow Technologies Co. SEP-10) set at output of microreactor. In this study, we investigated the synthesis of PHA from nitrobenzene using a flow microreactor with a slug flow of an organic solution and water. Bayesian optimization, e

Procedure for the photoreduction of 4-chloronitrobenzene as follows: 4-Chloronitrobenzene was dissolved in organic solvent degassed by Ar gas. Then, appropriate equivalents of triethanolamine and Eosin Y (tetrabromofluorescein) were added in water and degassed by Ar gas. The pH value of water solution was adjusted to 8.5 by adding concen- trated HCl aqueous solution, because this pH value is the b

FEP tube (internal diameter (ID) = 1 mm) was used as a microreactor. The path length of tube is 1 mm. Tape-type green LED (5050type 60 LED/m Non-waterproof, con- sumed electric power 6 W/m) was utilized as the light source. Three different lengths of tape-type LED were made to match the length of the tube (4.4 m (261 tips) for 7 and

adding concentrated HCl aqueous solutions. After adjusting the pH, each solution was put into a glass shrink (internal diameter (ID) = 22 mm), and mixed with a magnetic star- ring bar vigorously. The mixed solution was irradiated by the LED light for photoreduction until confirmed that the starting material was disappeared by reaction tracking of 1H-NMR measurement. After photoreaction, the solu- 

