channels with characteristic dimensions ranging from tens to hundreds of micrometers, has emerged as a transforma- tive approach in modern chemical engineering [16]. This approach involves manipulating small volumes of fluids in microchannels and provides several benefits [17, 18] includ- ing improved mass transfer [19], online monitoring of reac- tion conditions [20], low thermal inertia and the ability to perform high-throughput screening of reaction conditions [21]. In addition, microfluidic devices are generally easy to use and manufacture, as well as cost effective [22], mak- ing them particularly attractive for both laboratory-scale research and potential industrial applications.

entire system was purged with a 10% C2H2/Ar gas mixture and pressurized to 3 bar. The capillary reactor, immersed in an oil bath, was then heated to the target temperature (e.g., 80 °C). At this stage, a reference mass spectrometry signal (Ig) was acquired for the pure acetylene/argon mixture to establish the baseline for zero conversion. Subsequently, the liquid catalyst was introduced by a syringe pump (Smart Microfluidics, Southern Federal University) to establish a Taylor flow regime [25], characterized by alternating gas and liquid segments. The gas flow was controlled via EL- FLOW mass-flow controllers (Bronkhorst High-Tech B.V, Ruurlo, the Netherlands). The gas phase after separation was continuously analyzed by mass spectrometry (Pfeiffer Vacuum + Fab Solutions, Aßlar, Germany) (Ig+l). Acetylene

S3, ESI†). Reaction mixture was purged with 10% C2H2/Ar mixture for 20 min with gas flow rate in the range 1.6–3.2 mL/min via the tube immersed right down to the bottom of the test tube (total volume of test tube was 2.5 mL; height of liquid column was ca. 5 cm). bration, transition mode and saturation of acetylene signal (Fig. 2). Since the dead volume of the microfluidic setup is much smaller, the C2H2 mass spectral signal reached satura- tion in ca. 5 min, much faster than in the batch experiment. All data obtained with variation of gas and liquid flows are summarized in Table S1, ESI†.

the tasks at hand. Microfluidic gas lines can be integrated into multichannel arrays, enabling increased synthesis throughput. Microfluidic technologies scale well provided the setup is optimized and key synthesis parameters (pres- sure, temperature) are maintained. Parallel microreactors with slightly larger tube diameters can serve as a good scaling model for gas-liquid systems. A photo of the whole experimental setup is shown on Fig. S1, ESI†.

column limitations by enabling precise gas-liquid inter- face. Segmented gas-liquid flow improves solubility [27], enhances mass transfer, and thus increase conversion rates [28]. This work aims to optimize the conditions of gas-liq- uid catalytic reaction within capillary microreactor.

Microfluidic synthesis A scheme of the flow setup is shown in Fig. 5. The reaction mixture (5.5 mL) was loaded into glass syringes installed into syringe pumps (1) (see also Fig. S1, ESI†). Then, reaction mixture (flow rates 0.06–0.18 mL/min) was injected into the flow of 10% C2H2/Ar (1.6–3.2 mL/min), dosed by mass flow controller (2, 3), using PEEK T-junction for gas-liquid segmented flow generation (4). Reaction time varied from 5 to 10 min depending on the flow rates. Generated liquid segments were sent into capil- lary reactor (5) — a FEP tube with an inner diameter of 0.8 mm, outer diameter of 1.6 mm, and length of 5 m (inner volume ca. 2.5 mL) kept at 80 °C using oil bath and heater. After the capillary, the velocity of the liquid segments was recorded on a microscope with camera (6). Then, gas and liquid phases were separated using PTFE Y-connector (7) to avoid contact of mass spectrometer with liquid phase. The whole system was pressurized with 3 bars maintained using a low-flow back-pressure regulator (9) and pilot pressure from cylinder (10). The liquid phase was collected using another syringe pump (11) to ensure that only the gas phase is analyzed by the mass spectrometer (12). The products in the gas phase were condensed and collected in the test tube cooled with liquid nitrogen (13). The microfluidic approach has significant potential for scaling [29, 30], but its imple- mentation depends on the specific system architecture and

To systematically evaluate the influence of key reaction parameters, we conducted a series of experiments varying reaction temperature and liquid-phase flow rate while main- taining constant gas flow conditions. The reaction tempera- ture was varied from 60 °C to 100 °C at a fixed pressure of 3 bar and constant gas and fluid flow rates (2 and 0.045 mL/ min, respectively). The acetylene conversion grew mono- tonically as the temperature increased (Fig. 6). The tempera- ture of 80 °C was selected as the optimal setting for further optimization of the other reaction parameters. At this tem- perature, acetylene conversion is high enough for detection, while the selectivity for vinyl iodide remains almost 100% [10]. The apparent activation energy of acetylene hydroio- dination reaction obtained from the temperature depen- dence of acetylene conversion (Fig. 12) was found to be of 27.3 ± 1.9 kJ*mol–1.

parameter in microfluidic synthesis, exerting significant influence on reaction efficiency. As demonstrated by Den- gwei et al. [31], the Taylor flow enhances mass transfer through increased direct gas-liquid contact area between segments and via film that forms from the liquid on the cap- illary wall. We conducted a series of experiments where gas and liquid flow rates were varied independently (see Figs. S8–10, ESI†). Higher liquid flow rate led to elongation of the liquid segments (see Fig. 7) while lower liquid flow rate at a fixed gas flow rate (see Fig. S8) resulted in longer gas segments and narrower liquid segments. Fixed width of liq- uid segments can be achieved by simultaneous adjustment of both gas and liquid flow rates (see Fig. S9) [32]. Finally, reducing the gas flow rate at constant liquid flow rate (see Fig. S10) results in wider liquid segments and shorter gas segments.

and gas segments with conversion is shown in Fig. 8a. The optimal parameters can be determined by the size of orange circles that are proportional to the conversion. Amount of vinyl iodide in the gas phase increases along with the length of liquid segments and for shorter gas segments. The high- est achieved conversion corresponds to the flow pattern with 3 mm liquid segments and 10 mm gas bubbles. This result can be explained by two factors, both mass transfer and reaction time that depends mostly on the gas flow rate.

where KL0 = 4.03 × 10− 1 m/s; ρ is the density of water phase, 1356 kg/m3 at 20 ◦C; d is the hydrodynamic diameter, m; u is the velocity of the superficial velocity of the liquid calculated by liquid flow rate QL, m/s; gas flow rate QG, m/s; γ is interfacial tension between gas and liquid phase. work in the modes of search or refinement, empirically selected for some balance between the modes, σ(x) — stan- dard deviation.

transfer and residence time. The point with lowest conver- sion 2.33% in panel a) is characterized by smallest mass transfer coefficient. On contrary experiments with highest conversion can be characterized with optimal mass transfer values. Results in Fig. 8 indicate that shorter gas segments provided highest efficiency. This can be explained both by the increased residence time and better replacement of the fresh gas atmosphere near liquid interface.

tant exposure within the reactor, serves as a parameter gov- erning conversion efficiency. It is influenced by both the liquid and gas flow rates. As evidenced by the flow rate dependence studies (see Sect. 4, ESI †) conversion effi- ciency decreases systematically with increasing liquid flow rate due to reduced contact time. The optimal flow rates are those that achieve a balance between maximizing conver- sion and minimizing the residence time, representing an effi- cient and productive process. In this case the optimal value of overall mass transfer coefficient is 0.12. The optimal resi- dence time was found to be about 7 min, which ensured high acetylene conversion for not too long exposure time.

Based on preliminary observations in the previous section we systematically optimize the liquid and gas flow rates, using a Bayesian approach. We followed a stepwise proce- dure. First the liquid flow rate was varied while maintain- ing a constant gas flow rate (2 mL/min) (see Fig. 9a). In a second step we generated uniformly distributed sampling points across both liquid and gas flows using Improved Latin Hypercube Sampling (IHS) [33, 34]. This approach minimized blind zones in the conversion mapping, ensuring comprehensive coverage of the design space (see Fig. 9b). Finally, the optimal parameters for maximum conversion were discovered during Bayesian optimization algorithm. All experiments utilizing the Bayesian optimization algo- rithm are presented. The algorithm itself was employed only in the third step (see Fig. 9c) and reached its optimum at the 4th point. Additionally, we have included the source code for the Bayesian optimization in ESI (Sect. 3). The acquisition function was chosen Upper Confidence Bound (UCB, see Fig. S7, ESI†) to maximize the target function [35] (Eq. 4):

where µ(x) — prediction of the target function (picture in the center), k = 2.56 — coefficient influencing the optimizer's black points were selected one by one in Bayesian algorithm. The background color in each panel correspond to the prediction of conver- sion by RBF algorithm trained on available experimental points

The synthesis of vinyl iodide and (E, E)-1,4-diiodobuta- 1,3-diene has been successfully transferred into microflu- idic regime. The implementation of Bayesian optimization provided efficient optimization of the reaction parameters inside coil reactor and increased overall acetylene con- version to 23.5 ± 0.8% for vinyl iodide within less than 10 min. C2H2 conversion increased with larger liquid seg- ments and shorter gas segment length with the higher val- ues achieved when the length of the gas segment was about triple the length of the liquid counterpart. The overall mass transfer coefficient at the optimal conditions was 0.12. The

