Recently, we have established on-surface syntheses of indenoﬂuorene polymers by utilizing oxidative cyclization of methyl groups against phenylene rings of polyphenylene backbones,25,26 an alternative strategy to dehydrogenation of dihydroindenoﬂuorene precursors by the STM tip.27 We have considered that increasing the number of methyl groups on the PPP backbone in this system can lead to PInIns. Here, we report an unprecedented on-surface synthesis of para-type oligo(indenoindene) (p-OInIn, 4) on Au(111), starting from dibromo-trimethyl-p-terphenyl 1 as the precursor (Scheme 1). A sequence of thermally activated reactions led to atomically precise segments of the targeted p-OInIn 4, although defects, mainly due to isomerization and incomplete dehydrogenation of methylene carbons, were overall present. p-OInIn 4 was characterized by means of low-temperature STM/STS and nc- Received: May 29, 2020 Published: July 14, 2020 Scheme 1.

The observed polymers were no longer packed into islands. This change can be attributed to the desorption of bromine atoms from the Au(111) surface, which is known to be promoted by the presence of atomic hydrogen,32,33 and to occur in this temperature range.34 Moreover, some T-shape connections between the polymers appeared (see Figure S1c), most likely arising from undesired coupling reactions between the terminal radicals and methyl groups on the backbones. The oxidative cyclization of methyl groups was (nearly) completed after annealing the sample to 360 °C (Figure 1f). This on-surface reaction is most probably initiated by the homolytic cleavage of the benzylic C−H bond, namely of the methyl group, considering its higher reactivity compared to that of the phenyl C−H bond. A zigzag appearance of the resulting polymers suggested the formation of ﬁve-membered rings on alternating sides of the polymer backbones, even though long-range order of such pattern was lacking.

Reaction Pathway from 1 to p-OInIn 4 on Au(111) Communication pubs.acs.org/JACS © 2020 American Chemical Society 12925 https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c05701 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 12925−12929 Downloaded via HOKKAIDO UNIV on October 13, 2025 at 07:38:17 (UTC). See https://pubs.acs.org/sharingguidelines for options on how to legitimately share published articles.

The synthesis of PInIns was pioneered by Scherf and Müllen in 1992, but the ﬁnal dehydrogenation step did not proceed completely, and unambiguous structural proof could not be obtained.21 More recently, Wu et al. synthesized a short segment of PInIn with four and ﬁve pentagons and hexagons, respectively,17 but more extended PInIns have remained elusive. On-surface synthesis has become a powerful tool for the preparation of two-dimensional covalent organic frameworks and quasi-one-dimensional graphene nanoribbons with various structures and properties by rational design of small-molecule precursors.4,22−24 Under ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) conditions, chemical and electronic structures of the resulting products can be in situ visualized by scanning tunneling microscopy/ spectroscopy (STM/STS) and noncontact atomic force microscopy (nc-AFM), providing their unambiguous charac- terizations.

On-Surface Synthesis of Oligo(indenoindene) Marco Di Giovannantonio,* Qiang Chen, José I. Urgel, Pascal Ruﬃeux, Carlo A. Pignedoli, Klaus Müllen,* Akimitsu Narita,* and Roman Fasel* Cite This: J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 12925−12929 Read Online ACCESS Metrics & More Article Recommendations * sı Supporting Information ABSTRACT: Fully conjugated ladder polymers (CLP) possess unique optical and electronic properties and are considered promising materials for applications in (opto)electronic devices. Poly(indenoindene) is a CLP consisting of an alternating array of ﬁve- and six-membered rings, which has remained elusive so far. Here, we report an on-surface synthesis of oligo(indenoindene) on Au(111). Its structure and a low electronic band gap have been elucidated by low-temperature scanning tunneling microscopy and spectroscopy and noncontact atomic force microscopy, complemented by density functional theory calculations.

AFM, complemented by density functional theory (DFT) calculations, providing structural and electronic insights into this elusive CLP. To achieve the formation of the desired ladder polymer, precursor 1 was sublimed onto a clean Au(111) surface held at room temperature (RT) in UHV. STM images of the resulting adsorbate layer show intact molecules of precursor 1 that form self-assembled domains, stabilized by Br···H interactions (Figure 1a,b; see also Figure S1 for large scale STM images of all the investigated phases). Annealing this sample to 160 °C led to homolytic cleavage of (most of) the C−Br bonds and C−C bond formation between the generated diradical species to form methyl substituted oligo-p-phenylene 2, which was still terminated with bromine atoms (Figure 1c,d).23,28−31 The dissociated bromine atoms chemisorbed onto the Au(111) surface and stabilized islands of packed oligomers 2.

In conclusion, we have demonstrated the on-surface synthesis of oligo(indenoindene) 4 via sequential aryl−aryl coupling of p-terphenyl-based precursor 1 and cyclization of methyl substituents. Although formation of constitutional isomers and incomplete dehydrogenation were observed, defect-free segments of 4 could be clearly visualized by nc- AFM. Detailed electronic characterizations by STS and DFT calculations revealed a low band gap and the antiferromagnetic character of 4. Alternative monomer designs are currently considered in our laboratories to achieve such conjugated ladder polymers with high regioselectivity, for electronic device applications and experimental elucidation of their magnetic properties. ■

Magniﬁed STM images of panels (a) and (c), respectively, at the positions indicated by the dashed squares, with superimposed molecular schemes. The blue circles in (d) indicate bromine atoms. Scanning parameters: (a,b) It = 100 pA, Vb = −0.5 V; (c,d) It = 50 pA, Vb = −0.5 V; (e) It = 100 pA, Vb = −0.5 V; (f) It = 30 pA, Vb = −0.5 V. Figure 2. Images of a ladder oligomer p-OInIn 4 segment obtained after annealing 1 on Au(111) at 360 °C, acquired in diﬀerent modes. (a) Constant-current STM image. (b) Constant-height STM image recorded with a CO-functionalized tip. (c) Constant-height frequency-shift nc-AFM image performed with a CO-functionalized tip. (d) Laplace-ﬁltered image of (c).

(e) DFT-optimized geometry of an oligomer 4 on Au(111). Scanning parameters: (a) It = 50 pA, Vb = −0.2 V; (b) Δz is 1.0 Å above the STM set point: It = 100 pA, Vb = −5 mV; (c) Δz is 2.6 Å above the STM set point: It = 150 pA, Vb = −5 mV. Journal of the American Chemical Society pubs.acs.org/JACS Communication https://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c05701 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 12925−12929 12926

were observed (see Figures 3 and S2). Figure 3 shows some examples of defective structures identiﬁed by nc-AFM. Methylene (−CH2−) bridges were observed as brighter features (red arrows), which are attributed to incomplete dehydrogenation after heating at 360 °C for 10 min. The presence of two ﬁve-membered rings at the same polymer site (green arrows) was also detected, indicating that the undesired head-to-head coupling may proceed even with two ortho- methyl groups facing each other. Single bonds were addition- ally discerned (blue arrows), hindering complete ladderization. The absence of the ﬁve-membered rings at these positions may be ascribed to either (i) tail-to-tail linkage of the precursor molecules or (ii) loss of methyl groups during the annealing, as observed also in other segments (see Figure S2).

