Abstract The Pinnick oxidation, due to its tolerance for sensitive functional groups, is widely used in the process of oxidizing α,β- unsaturated aldehydes to corresponding carboxylic acids. The reaction reagents typically include sodium chlorite, buffer salts, and a scavenger. However, the controllability of Pinnick oxidation in the batch reaction process is poor due to the inherent limitations of the reactor's performance. This leads to potential safety risks and necessitates the reaction to proceed slowly under conditions of low temperature and low concentration. In this work, we introduced a new continuous micro-reaction process to intensify the Pinnick oxidation. The water-soluble crotonic acid was selected as a typical object of study. Through the study of reaction parameters and the construction of a micro-reaction system, efficient continuous process was achieved under high-temperature and high-pressure conditions for the first time. Compared to the batch process, the reaction benefited from the superheated condition resulting in a significant acceleration of the reaction rate, efficient gas–liquid interphase mass transfer allowing for effective utilization of the generated chlorine dioxide, and the inherent safety of the microreactor enabling an increase in reaction concentration. In addition, the buffer salts used in the Pinnick oxidation has been successfully replaced by hydrochloric acid and applied to the continuous flow. This work shows the tremendous potential of microreactors in utilizing harsh reaction conditions to achieve process intensification.

The reaction temperature plays the dominant role due to its nonlinear impact on the reaction rate and consequent heat release rate. In consideration of safety, the effect of temperature, ranging from 0 to 25 °C, on the reaction was examined in the batch reactor. As shown in Fig. 2, a nota- ble acceleration in the reaction rate was observed with the increase of reaction temperature. Remarkably, at 25 °C, another reaction time of 3 h after addition of NaClO2 was able to achieve a complete conversion of crotonalde- hyde with almost 100% yield. An intriguing experimen- tal observation was the generation of a greater volume of yellow-green gas, and a consequent darkening of the gas phase, with the rise in temperature (Figure S1). The main component of this yellow-green gas was presumed to be ClO2, originating from the decomposition of HClO2 or the reaction between HClO and HClO2. The decomposi- tion of HClO2 was markedly accelerated by the increase in reaction temperature. Given the significantly higher

The pH determines the concentration of HClO2 molecules, which has a direct impact on the reaction rate. The advan- tage of a lower pH was that it fostered the thermal stability of H2O2 and expedited the reaction between H2O2 and HClO. However, a higher concentration of HClO2 molecules in the solution aggravated its self-decomposition, leading to a decrease in the utilization rate of NaClO2. Therefore, phos- phate buffer salts were typically employed in batch process to regulate the reaction under suitable acidic conditions. A study of the effect of buffer systems with different pH values on the reaction revealed that as the pH decreased, the reaction rate significantly increased (Fig. 5). For example, when the reac- tion time was 0.5 h, the conversion rate at pH = 2.31 exceeded 90%, while at pH = 5.67, it was only 20%. When the pH was 0.84, an obvious decline in reaction selectivity was observed. The primary reason as confirmed was that crotonaldehyde exhibited instability and was susceptible to spoilage under strongly acidic conditions (Figure S2). Above all, a moderate pH environment was of paramount importance for the Pinnick oxidation. When using buffer salts, the issue of buffer capacity must be considered. As can be seen from the main reaction

efficiency, process controllability, and rapid mixing. Next, we aimed to broaden the operational scope and intensify the reaction process by utilizing the microreactor. Firstly, we increased the system pressure to prevent sol- vent boiling and reagent decomposition at high tempera- ture. Simultaneously, high system pressure minimized the impact of gas generation, which significantly reduced the residence time in the microreactor. From the Fig. 8, as the reaction temperature increased, the reaction rate significantly increased. Surprisingly, the reaction selectivity can consist- ently be maintained close to 100%. For the side reactions that may happen at high temperature, it was observed from Figure S3 that the crotonaldehyde underwent self-polymer- ization under high temperature conditions, leading to a rapid decrease in the concentration. After heating reflux reaction of the normal pressure in batch reactor was over, there were noticeable oil-like polymer impurities generated on the wall (Figure S4). In the microchannel, on one hand, the consump- tion speed of the raw materials greatly increased. On the other hand, due to the continuous high-intensity gas–liq- uid two-phase mixing, oxygen, acting as a coagulant, can effectively inhibit the self-polymerization of the crotonal- dehyde. Therefore, the method of using high-temperature superheated flow process for reaction intensification was feasible. For the subsequent experiments, the continuous reaction conditions at 120 °C and 4 MPa were chosen. Hydrogen peroxide is relatively stable under acidic con- ditions and does not decompose significantly over a short period. Therefore, the utilization rate of H2O2 under high- temperature and high-pressure conditions remained high (Fig. 9), essentially consistent with the conditions in low- temperature batch process.

In summary, we have developed an efficient and continu- ous micro-reaction system for Pinnick oxidation. Through the batch reaction system, we studied the influence of fac- tors such as temperature, reagent equivalents, and pH. We found that due to the performance and safety of the equip- ment, the batch reaction can only achieve good results under low concentration, low temperature, and slow reac- tion rate. However, with the help of the microreactor, we broke this limitation, realized overheating micro-reaction process. Efficient gas–liquid mass transfer has enabled the reuse of the byproduct chlorine dioxide, improving the utilization rate of the oxidant sodium hypochlorite under high temperatures. Through the rapid mixing of multiple streams of reactants, we have achieved the great replacement of phosphate buffer salts with hydrochloric acid in continuous flow process. The inherent safety and controllability of the microreactor enabled an increase in reaction concentration and reaction rate. Ultimately, at 0.6 mol/L, a residence time of 3 min in microchannel at 120 °C and 4.0 MPa was employed to produce crotonic acid in 95.6% isolated yield with relatively low reagent consumption.

residence time, it was calculated that the deviation was less than 10% at a pressure of 4 MPa and low reactant concentra- tion (0.1 mol/L). The residence time at high concentrations can be modified using the following equation: Data availability The datasets generated during and/or analysed dur- ing the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.

where t is the residence time; V is the reactor volume; F is the total flow rate; c is the concentration of crotonaldehyde; 휂 is the reaction conversion. A cooling unit was arranged at the outlet of the micro-channel reactor to quench the reac- tion. A back pressure regulator was used to control the sys- tem pressure. The reaction solution was separated continu- ously by a gas–liquid separator to obtain the desired aqueous phase. Unreacted oxidants in aqueous phase were destroyed by Na2SO3, and acetonitrile was removed by evaporation. Finally, the residual solution was extracted 3 times with equal volume of methyl tert-butyl ether, and the crude product was collected by removal of organic solvent. In the experiment, rapid sampling can be achieved using a three-way valve, and the reaction conversion rate and yield can be obtained by HPLC detection of the aqueous reaction solution (acetophe- none was selected as the internal standard). Considering that the Na2SO3 reacted with the aldehyde [38] and affected the calculation of reaction conversion rate, sodium ascorbate was selected as the reducing agent in rapid sampling. Typically, for the continuous micro-reaction system, the flow rates of crotonaldehyde solution (0.6 M), sodium chlorite solution (0.6 M) and hydrogen peroxide solution containing phosphate buffer salts (0.2 M H2O2 + 0.06 M H3PO4 + 0.11 M NaH2PO4) were 4.0 ml/min, 5.6 ml/min and 14.4 ml/min, respectively. Correspondingly, the molar ratio of crotonaldehyde, sodium chlorite, hydrogen perox- ide, phosphoric acid and sodium dihydrogen phosphate was 1:1.4:1.2:0.35:0.65.

