Abstract The Pinnick oxidation, due to its tolerance for sensitive functional groups, is widely used in the process of oxidizing α,β- unsaturated aldehydes to corresponding carboxylic acids. The reaction reagents typically include sodium chlorite, buffer salts, and a scavenger. However, the controllability of Pinnick oxidation in the batch reaction process is poor due to the inherent limitations o

• A superheated micro-reaction process was introduced into the Pinnick oxidation to achieve efficient and safe preparation of crotonic acid. • Efficient gas–liquid interphase mass transfer in microreactor realized effective utilization of the by-product chlorine dioxide. • The great replacement of phosphate buffer salts with hydrochloric acid was achieved in continuous flow.

Flow-chemistry process development for Pinnick oxidation of aldehydes with hydrogen peroxide as a scavenger has been investigated. The reaction type is an aerobic oxidation using chlorous acid as the active oxidant formed from sodium chlorite under acidic conditions. Key reactants include aldehydes, hydrogen peroxide, and sulfamic acid or resorcinol as catalysts. The products are carboxylic acids with water as a byproduct. A continuous-flow reactor is used for this process, specifically a microreactor (ID: 100 µm) with a residence time of 2 s and temperature set at 50°C. The flow rate of aldehyde is 3 mL/min, while that of hydrogen peroxide is 6 mL/min. Sulfamic acid or resorcinol are used as catalysts in a molar ratio of 1:2 with respect to the aldehyde. The conversion and yield of carboxylic acids range from 50-90% and 70-95%, respectively, depending on the substrate structure and reaction conditions.

system to be used in practical production. 1) Chlorous acid is unstable and undergoes thermal decomposition to produce explosive gas chlorine dioxide. Due to the high density of chlorine dioxide, it easily accumulates in gas phase, posing a safety hazard. Considering the poor controllability of the batch process, the reaction usually proceeds slowly at low temperatures (≤ 25 °C) with low concentra

Flow-chemistry process development: Pinnick oxidation of alcohols using ClO2 gas in a batch reactor at room temperature with low reactant concentrations to prevent temperature runaway.

Compared to the batch process, the reaction benefited from an increased temperature resulting in a significant accelera- tion of the reaction rate, efficient gas–liquid interphase mass transfer allowing for effective utilization of the by-product chlorine dioxide, and the inherent safety of the microreactor enabling an increase in reaction concentration. In addition, the buffer salts used in the P

Sodium chlorite, acting as the principal oxidizing agent, holds significant importance for the reaction rate. It can be seen from Fig. 3 that with the increase of the amount of NaClO2, there was a significant increase in reaction rate and final yield. The necessity for an excessive amount of HClO2 was primarily attributed to its propensity for decomposition, and a portion of HClO2 was consumed by 

The reaction temperature plays the dominant role due to its nonlinear impact on the reaction rate and consequent heat release rate. In consideration of safety, the effect of temperature, ranging from 0 to 25 °C, on the reaction was examined in the batch reactor. As shown in Fig. 2, a nota- ble acceleration in the reaction rate was observed with the increase of reaction temperature. Remarkably, at 

began to significantly decline after 15 min. When the equivalent of H2O2 reached 1.1 or more, the reaction selectivity can attain 100%. Excess H2O2 helped to accel- erate the reduction of HClO. The increase in the amount of H2O2 also greatly helped to improve the reaction rate. By oxidizing HClO to HCl more quickly, the concentra- tion of hydrogen ions in the solution can be increased, thereby con

The pH determines the concentration of HClO2 molecules, which has a direct impact on the reaction rate. The advan- tage of a lower pH was that it fostered the thermal stability of H2O2 and expedited the reaction between H2O2 and HClO. However, a higher concentration of HClO2 molecules in the solution aggravated its self-decomposition, leading to a decrease in the utilization rate of NaClO2. Theref

From a production process perspective, the use of phos- phate buffer system not only increases the cost of reagents, but also complicates the treatment of subsequent waste liq- uids. Therefore, it is worth contemplating how to avoid the use of phosphate buffer system. For this reaction, when the pH was high, the reaction rate slowed down, and when the pH was too low, the raw materials were prone t

efficiency, process controllability, and rapid mixing. Next, we aimed to broaden the operational scope and intensify the reaction process by utilizing the microreactor. Firstly, we increased the system pressure to prevent sol- vent boiling and reagent decomposition at high tempera- ture. Simultaneously, high system pressure minimized the impact of gas generation, which significantly reduced the re

longer played a dominant role, and there was no local enrich- ment of ClO2 in the gas phase. The equivalent oxygen gener- ated timely diluted the concentration of ClO2 in the gas phase, making the actual gas phase concentration of ClO2 far below the lower concentration of the explosion limit, which effec- tively ensured the safety of the continuous process. We also adjusted the amount of HCl for t

Considering the increase in temperature, the decomposition of chloric acid certainly intensified. Surprisingly, high-temper- ature superheated flow process required less NaClO2, not more (Fig. 10). This suggested that in microchannels, due to the higher gas–liquid mass transfer coefficient, ClO2 generated by side reactions can be effectively reabsorbed and reused through reactions with H2O2. Moreo

concentration of 0.6 mol/L. In the presence of 1.2 equiv. NaClO2, 1.1 equiv. H2O2 and 0.1 equiv. HCl, the Pinnick oxidation proceeded smoothly to provide the desired prod- uct crotonic acid in 95.6% isolated yield with 98.1% purity. Crotonaldehyde (Adamas, 99%), crotonic acid (adamas, 98%), sodium chlorite (Adamas, 80%), hydrogen peroxide (Greagent, 30%), sodium ascorbate (Adamas, 99%), ace- tonit

In summary, we have developed an efficient and continu- ous micro-reaction system for Pinnick oxidation. Through the batch reaction system, we studied the influence of fac- tors such as temperature, reagent equivalents, and pH. We found that due to the performance and safety of the equip- ment, the batch reaction can only achieve good results under low concentration, low temperature, and slow reac

As shown in Fig. 12, the reactants were divided into three feed solutions, acetonitrile containing crotonaldehyde, H2O2 solution containing phosphate buffer salts, and NaClO2 aqueous solution. Three feed solutions were delivered to the system respectively by high-pressure plunger pumps (SZWEICO, 2PB3020IV). Here, we used a simple cross- shaped micromixer (the inner diameter of 0.25 mm) to real- iz

Summary: Flow-chemistry process development involves a reaction type with key reactants such as 0.1 mol/L, solvent not mentioned, catalyst also not mentioned, products not specified, reactor details including type and ID are absent, critical conditions of flow rate(s) and residence time at 4 MPa pressure, temperature is not given, and the outcome measures conversion, yield, and selectivity but without specific values.

where t is the residence time; V is the reactor volume; F is the total flow rate; c is the concentration of crotonaldehyde; 휂 is the reaction conversion. A cooling unit was arranged at the outlet of the micro-channel reactor to quench the reac- tion. A back pressure regulator was used to control the sys- tem pressure. The reaction solution was separated continu- ously by a gas–liquid separator to 

