Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206 https://doi.org/10.1007/s41981-025-00358-z

FULL PAPER

<image: DeviceRGB, width: 29, height: 30, bpc: 8>

Optimal conditions for Pt-catalyzed microfluidic synthesis of iodoolefins

A. N. Bulgakov1 · A. S. Gogil'chin2 · Mahmoud E. A. Eid1,3 · A. A. Tereshchenko1 · N. V. Egil1 · T. V. Krasnyakova1,2 · I. O. Krasniakova1 · A. V. Soldatov1 · A. A. Guda1 · S. A. Mitchenko1,2

Received: 9 April 2025 / Accepted: 18 June 2025 / Published online: 30 June 2025 © Akadémiai Kiadó Zrt 2025

Abstract The employment of acetylene-derived alkenyl iodides facilitates the integration of olefinic moieties into intricate molecu- lar structures. Their synthesis is often related to catalytic gas-liquid process where traditional batch methods suffer from inefficient mass transfer upon scaling, thus limiting yields of iodoolefins production. In this study, we develop microflu- idic synthesis of vinyl iodide and (E,E)-1,4-diiodo-1,3-butadiene from acetylene using PtIV iodo complexes as a catalyst in aqueous solutions. Segmented Taylor flow regime was applied to increase interfacial surface area and subsequent gas-liquid separation enables online mass-spectroscopic conversion monitoring. We varied reaction parameters to study temperature dependence of the conversion as well as influence of gas and liquid flow rates. The optimal conditions were derived from Bayesian approach and promoted better mass transfer and, thereby, higher acetylene conversion. The meth- odology can be readily extended to the synthesis of other small organic iodides.

Highlights

● Segmented flow regime for the PtI4-catalyzed synthesis of iodoolefins from acetylene.

● The Bayesian approach was applied in optimizing reaction parameters.

● Optimal conditions favored synthesis of vinyl iodide and diiodobutadiene.

Keywords Microfluidic synthesis · Taylor flow · Homogeneous catalysis · Pt catalyst · Vinyl iodide · (E,E)-1,4- diiodobuta-1,3-diene · Bayesian optimization

Introduction

has been efficiently prepared using this methodology [2, 3]. A plethora of pivotal products (naproxen, eletriptan, singu- lair, prosulfuron) has been successfully commercialized, while numerous others are still under development [4, 5]. Nowadays, cross-coupling reactions play an essential role in fine organic synthesis as they allow complex structures to be easily assembled from simpler building blocks [6].

Transition metal-catalyzed cross-coupling reactions have emerged as prominent and widely used synthetic tools in the last decades [1]. A great variety of bioactive compounds, nat- ural compounds, pharmaceuticals, optoelectronic materials

Olefin moieties, especially conjugated dienes are widely

employed as building blocks in organic synthesis via cross- coupling reactions [7]. Among such building blocks, vinyl iodides and (E,E)-1,4-diiodo-1,3-butadiene are the most promising for further involvement in C-C coupling reac- tions due to the high reactivity of C-I bonds, enabling these transformations under mild conditions, even at room tem- perature [8]. Moreover, cross-coupling reactions involving C-I derivatives offer a set of extra benefits such as achieving high stability of functional groups, retention of molecular configuration and asymmetric centers.

A. A. Guda

guda@sfedu.ru

S. A. Mitchenko samit_rpt@mail.ru

The Smart Materials Research Institute, Southern Federal University, Rostov-on-Don 344090, Russia

Institute of Physical Organic Chemistry and Coal Chemistry, 70 R. Luxemburg Str, Donetsk, Russia

Physics Department, Faculty of Science, Tanta University, Tanta 31527, Egypt

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206

The synthesis of substituted diiodienes is a well-devel-

A, Scheme 1). In neutral solutions (but in the presence of iodine in excess), further iodoplatination of the second acet- ylene molecule occurs by the intermediate In1 to form the divinyl PtIV derivative (In3). Finally, subsequent conversion of the latter via a reductive elimination step yields the C-C coupling product, (E, E)-1,4-diiodobuta-1,3-diene (cycle B, Scheme 1).

oped area, but the preparation of unsubstituted derivatives is rather challenging. The high reactivity of these substrates leads to numerous side reactions, including free-radical ones, photochemical transformations, oligomerization, deiodination [9]. Such reactions significantly reduce the yield of target products due to the rapid decomposition of diiodienes during separation and purification [7].

Subsequent optimization of the (E,E)-1,4-diiodo-1,3-bu-

In earlier studies we showed how vinyl iodide [10] and

tadiene synthesis focused on systematic variation of solvent systems, reaction temperatures, and catalyst precursors [14]. The optimal conditions were identified as room temperature reaction in acetone, which provides dual advantages: (i) excellent acetylene solubility enabling rapid substrate con- version, and (ii) pronounced solvent polarity ensuring high stereoselectivity. However, in this approach, the current workup protocol requires product isolation through aque- ous precipitation at the reaction endpoint. This methodology presents two substantial drawbacks: first, it prevents reuse

(E, E)-1,4-diiodo-1,3-butadiene [11] can be synthesized with high chemoand stereoselectivity directly from acety- lene in reactions catalyzed by PtIV iodo complexes in aque- ous solutions. Scheme 1 shows the mechanistic pathway of the reactions, where both involve the same monovinyl PtIV complex (In1, Scheme 1) as a common intermediate [12, 13]. In acidic solutions, the latter is reversibly reduced by iodide ions to the intermediate vinyl PtII derivative (In2), which protonolysis provides vinyl iodide and PtII (cycle

Scheme 1 The stepwise mecha- nisms for acetylene hydroiodin- ation (cycle A) [10] and acetylene dimerization accompanied by addition of iodine (cycle B) [11] catalyzed by PtIV iodo complexes in aqueous solutions

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 1524, height: 1757, bpc: 8>

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206

of the reaction medium for subsequent batches, and second, it necessitates an elaborate catalyst regeneration procedure as only the catalytic component can be effectively recov- ered. These limitations significantly impact the process effi- ciency and scalability.

direct monitoring of acetylene conversion kinetics via in situ mass spectrometry (MS).

Experimental section

A significant limitation inherent to batch reactor systems

Reagents Potassium hexachloroplatinate (K2PtCl6), per- chloric acid (HClO4), sodium iodide dihydrate (NaI·2H2O), crystalline iodine. All the reagents above were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich and used without further purification. Also, distilled water (Milli-Q, Millipore, 18.2 MΩ·cm), argon (99.999% purity) and 10% C2H2/Ar mixture were used.

involves the precise determination of interfacial area under conditions of vigorous stirring or bubbling, where rapid diffusion processes occur [15]. To obtain a well-defined specific area for estimation of mass-transfer and reaction kinetics dependency on it, a Lewis's type stirred reactor with a plain interface between gas and liquid volumes can be used. However, the slow diffusion of gas into solution restricts the efficiency of the method.

Reaction mixture Vinyl iodide was synthesized from acety- lene according to the scheme shown in Fig. 1. First, 4.05 g (21.78 mmol) of NaI·2H2O was dissolved in distilled water to a volume of 7.6 mL followed by the addition of 2.6 mL (30.14 mmol) of 70% HClO4. The obtained solution was purged with pure argon for 5 min to remove air oxygen from the reaction mixture. Then, 0.04 g of K2PtCl6 (823 mmol) was added and the solution was stirred for 40 min at 400 rpm using magnetic stirrer. The transparent solution turned into a dark red color due to the replacement of plati- num chloride ligands with iodide ligands (Eq. 1).

Microfluidic synthesis, characterized by fluid flow in tiny

channels with characteristic dimensions ranging from tens to hundreds of micrometers, has emerged as a transforma- tive approach in modern chemical engineering [16]. This approach involves manipulating small volumes of fluids in microchannels and provides several benefits [17, 18] includ- ing improved mass transfer [19], online monitoring of reac- tion conditions [20], low thermal inertia and the ability to perform high-throughput screening of reaction conditions [21]. In addition, microfluidic devices are generally easy to use and manufacture, as well as cost effective [22], mak- ing them particularly attractive for both laboratory-scale research and potential industrial applications.

PtCl2−

6 I− −→PtI2−

(1)

The implementation of microfluidic continuous-flow

methodology for iodoolefin synthesis would overcome cur- rent limitations through two principal mechanisms: first, by intensifying acetylene mass transfer to the catalytic phase via enhanced interfacial contact [23], and second, by enabling precise quantification of specific interfacial area within the capillary reactor [24].

Similar reaction mixtures were prepared for both the experi- ment in batch and flow conditions.

To prepare reaction mixture for synthesis of (E, E)-

1,4-diiodobuta-1,3-diene, 2 g (10.75 mmol) of NaI·2H2O, and 1.8 g of crystalline iodine were dissolved in distilled water to give a 10 mL solution. The solution was stirred for 60 min at 400 rpm on a magnetic stirrer. Then, 0.034 g (699.5 mmol) of K2PtCl6 was added.

In this work, we present a comprehensive strategy for

optimizing product yields and reducing reaction times in the homogeneous catalytic synthesis of iodoolefins using PtIV iodo complexes. We did not investigate the possibil- ity of reusing the reaction medium or the need for catalyst regeneration, these challenges remain open. Our approach integrates four key components: (a) translation of batch reactions to segmented gas-liquid flow conditions, (b) real- time droplet monitoring to track interfacial area, (c) inline phase separation for efficient product isolation, and (d)

Each experiment was performed as follows: firstly, the

entire system was purged with a 10% C2H2/Ar gas mixture and pressurized to 3 bar. The capillary reactor, immersed in an oil bath, was then heated to the target temperature (e.g., 80 °C). At this stage, a reference mass spectrometry signal (Ig) was acquired for the pure acetylene/argon mixture to establish the baseline for zero conversion. Subsequently, the liquid catalyst was introduced by a syringe pump (Smart Microfluidics, Southern Federal University) to establish a Taylor flow regime [25], characterized by alternating gas and liquid segments. The gas flow was controlled via EL- FLOW mass-flow controllers (Bronkhorst High-Tech B.V, Ruurlo, the Netherlands). The gas phase after separation was continuously analyzed by mass spectrometry (Pfeiffer Vacuum + Fab Solutions, Aßlar, Germany) (Ig+l). Acetylene

<image: DeviceGray, width: 992, height: 233, bpc: 8>

Fig. 1 Reaction scheme of vinyl iodide synthesis from acetylene

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 992, height: 793, bpc: 8>

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 992, height: 554, bpc: 8>

Fig. 4 Bubble column (a) versus segmented-flow (b) types of gas liq- uid reaction

S3, ESI†). Reaction mixture was purged with 10% C2H2/Ar mixture for 20 min with gas flow rate in the range 1.6–3.2 mL/min via the tube immersed right down to the bottom of the test tube (total volume of test tube was 2.5 mL; height of liquid column was ca. 5 cm).

Fig. 2 In situ measured acetylene signal at the outlet of microfluidic reactor using MS

<image: DeviceGray, width: 992, height: 824, bpc: 8>

The standard procedure of MF synthesis consists of cali-

bration, transition mode and saturation of acetylene signal (Fig. 2). Since the dead volume of the microfluidic setup is much smaller, the C2H2 mass spectral signal reached satura- tion in ca. 5 min, much faster than in the batch experiment. All data obtained with variation of gas and liquid flows are summarized in Table S1, ESI†.

The gaseous products of the reaction can be also

monitored by FTIR spectroscopy (see details in Sect. 2, ESI†), however this approach involves larger volume of the transmission cell and thus was not applied for in situ measurements.

Results and discussion

Fig. 3 Vinyl iodide, 1H NMR (in acetone-d6, ppm): Ha 6.72 (dd, J3

H − H

(trans) = 15.5, 7.7 Hz, 1H); Hb 6.65 (dd, J3

H − H (cis) = 7.7, J2

H − H (gem)

Comparison between batch and flow syntheses

1.2 Hz, 1H); Hc 6.31 (dd, J3

H − H (trans) 15.5, J2

H − H (gem) 1.2 Hz, 1H)

conversion was determined by monitoring the decay of its characteristic MS signal intensity (Eq. 2):

To verify the performance of the catalyst, the first experi- ment was carried out under batch conditions at gas flow rate of 2 mL/min during 90 min (Fig. S4, ESI). The total conver- sion equal 9.4 ± 0.5% C2H2 was reached. We collected in total 3 mg of vinyl iodide during the experiment and verified the purity by 1H and 13C{1H} NMR in acetone-D6 solution using benzene as an internal weight standard.

Conversion (C2H2) = (1 − Ig+l

) ∗ 100% (2)

Ig

Then, after 10–15 min of signal accumulation, the liquid flow was stopped, and a system was flushed with a 10% C2H2/Ar gas mixture. Such an operation was repeated 3 times for each measurement. A plan of experiment is shown in Fig. S2, ESI†.

Conventional flask-based synthesis (see Fig. 4a), though

common, faces some limitations. Gas bubbles in the bulk volume have different sizes and nonuniform concentration in the liquid. At higher gas flow rate the bubbles tend to coalescence, thus lowering reaction rates and making dif- ficult quantitative analysis of reaction kinetics [26].

Batch synthesis Instead of capillary reactor (5) shown in Fig. 5, a test tube filled with reaction mixture was used (Fig

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206

Segmented flow regime (see Fig. 4b) overcome bubble

the tasks at hand. Microfluidic gas lines can be integrated into multichannel arrays, enabling increased synthesis throughput. Microfluidic technologies scale well provided the setup is optimized and key synthesis parameters (pres- sure, temperature) are maintained. Parallel microreactors with slightly larger tube diameters can serve as a good scaling model for gas-liquid systems. A photo of the whole experimental setup is shown on Fig. S1, ESI†.

column limitations by enabling precise gas-liquid inter- face. Segmented gas-liquid flow improves solubility [27], enhances mass transfer, and thus increase conversion rates [28]. This work aims to optimize the conditions of gas-liq- uid catalytic reaction within capillary microreactor.

Microfluidic synthesis A scheme of the flow setup is shown in Fig. 5. The reaction mixture (5.5 mL) was loaded into glass syringes installed into syringe pumps (1) (see also Fig. S1, ESI†). Then, reaction mixture (flow rates 0.06–0.18 mL/min) was injected into the flow of 10% C2H2/Ar (1.6–3.2 mL/min), dosed by mass flow controller (2, 3), using PEEK T-junction for gas-liquid segmented flow generation (4). Reaction time varied from 5 to 10 min depending on the flow rates. Generated liquid segments were sent into capil- lary reactor (5) — a FEP tube with an inner diameter of 0.8 mm, outer diameter of 1.6 mm, and length of 5 m (inner volume ca. 2.5 mL) kept at 80 °C using oil bath and heater. After the capillary, the velocity of the liquid segments was recorded on a microscope with camera (6). Then, gas and liquid phases were separated using PTFE Y-connector (7) to avoid contact of mass spectrometer with liquid phase. The whole system was pressurized with 3 bars maintained using a low-flow back-pressure regulator (9) and pilot pressure from cylinder (10). The liquid phase was collected using another syringe pump (11) to ensure that only the gas phase is analyzed by the mass spectrometer (12). The products in the gas phase were condensed and collected in the test tube cooled with liquid nitrogen (13). The microfluidic approach has significant potential for scaling [29, 30], but its imple- mentation depends on the specific system architecture and

Screening of reaction parameters in microfluidic regime

To systematically evaluate the influence of key reaction parameters, we conducted a series of experiments varying reaction temperature and liquid-phase flow rate while main- taining constant gas flow conditions. The reaction tempera- ture was varied from 60 °C to 100 °C at a fixed pressure of 3 bar and constant gas and fluid flow rates (2 and 0.045 mL/ min, respectively). The acetylene conversion grew mono- tonically as the temperature increased (Fig. 6). The tempera- ture of 80 °C was selected as the optimal setting for further optimization of the other reaction parameters. At this tem- perature, acetylene conversion is high enough for detection, while the selectivity for vinyl iodide remains almost 100% [10]. The apparent activation energy of acetylene hydroio- dination reaction obtained from the temperature depen- dence of acetylene conversion (Fig. 12) was found to be of 27.3 ± 1.9 kJ*mol–1.

The gas-liquid ratio represents another optimization

parameter in microfluidic synthesis, exerting significant influence on reaction efficiency. As demonstrated by Den- gwei et al. [31], the Taylor flow enhances mass transfer

Fig. 5 A scheme of experimental setup used for synthesis in micro- fluidic conditions L– liquid flow, G– gas flow.

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 1524, height: 1004, bpc: 8>

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 992, height: 849, bpc: 8>

through increased direct gas-liquid contact area between segments and via film that forms from the liquid on the cap- illary wall. We conducted a series of experiments where gas and liquid flow rates were varied independently (see Figs. S8–10, ESI†). Higher liquid flow rate led to elongation of the liquid segments (see Fig. 7) while lower liquid flow rate at a fixed gas flow rate (see Fig. S8) resulted in longer gas segments and narrower liquid segments. Fixed width of liq- uid segments can be achieved by simultaneous adjustment of both gas and liquid flow rates (see Fig. S9) [32]. Finally, reducing the gas flow rate at constant liquid flow rate (see Fig. S10) results in wider liquid segments and shorter gas segments.

The relationship between observable length of liquid

and gas segments with conversion is shown in Fig. 8a. The optimal parameters can be determined by the size of orange circles that are proportional to the conversion. Amount of vinyl iodide in the gas phase increases along with the length of liquid segments and for shorter gas segments. The high- est achieved conversion corresponds to the flow pattern with 3 mm liquid segments and 10 mm gas bubbles. This result can be explained by two factors, both mass transfer and reaction time that depends mostly on the gas flow rate.

Fig. 6 Temperature dependence of the conversion during microfluidic synthesis of vinyl iodide in segmented flow regime

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 992, height: 428, bpc: 8>

To explain conversion dependence on the segment sizes

we calculated the overall mass transfer coefficient (Eq. 3), using approach described by Tan et al. [19].

)−0.3

( QL

KL = KL0 ∗ ρ du2

(3)

γ ∗

(QL + QG)

Fig. 7 Resulted patterns of liquid segments with liquid flow variation. The MF system was pressurized under 3 bar. Reaction temperature was 80 °C

where KL0 = 4.03 × 10− 1 m/s; ρ is the density of water phase, 1356 kg/m3 at 20 ◦C; d is the hydrodynamic diameter, m; u is the velocity of the superficial velocity of the liquid

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 2055, height: 817, bpc: 8>

Fig. 8 Conversion variation shown as a function of gas/liquid segment sizes (a) or time and mass transfer coefficient (b). The area of circles is proportional to the conversion. All experiments were performed at T = 80 °С

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206

calculated by liquid flow rate QL, m/s; gas flow rate QG, m/s; γ is interfacial tension between gas and liquid phase.

work in the modes of search or refinement, empirically selected for some balance between the modes, σ(x) — stan- dard deviation.

Figure 8b shows the conversion as a function of mass

transfer and residence time. The point with lowest conver- sion 2.33% in panel a) is characterized by smallest mass transfer coefficient. On contrary experiments with highest conversion can be characterized with optimal mass transfer values. Results in Fig. 8 indicate that shorter gas segments provided highest efficiency. This can be explained both by the increased residence time and better replacement of the fresh gas atmosphere near liquid interface.

The background color corresponds to the prediction of

the total conversion performed by radial basis function (RBF) algorithm trained on available experimental points in each step. The coefficient of determination (R²) was com- puted using the Leave-One-Out Cross-Validation method, serving as a metric for the model's goodness of fit.

The implementation of Bayesian optimization serves two

primary objectives: systematic reduction of experimental iterations while maintaining convergence to optimal con- ditions, and efficient maximization of the target objective function. This machine learning strategy achieves these goals through intelligent balancing of exploration of uncer- tain parameter spaces and exploitation of known high-per- formance regions. Using such an approach for liquid and gas flow rates, we achieved 23.5 ± 0.8% conversion in the microfluidic regime.

Residence time, representing the mean duration of reac-

tant exposure within the reactor, serves as a parameter gov- erning conversion efficiency. It is influenced by both the liquid and gas flow rates. As evidenced by the flow rate dependence studies (see Sect. 4, ESI †) conversion effi- ciency decreases systematically with increasing liquid flow rate due to reduced contact time. The optimal flow rates are those that achieve a balance between maximizing conver- sion and minimizing the residence time, representing an effi- cient and productive process. In this case the optimal value of overall mass transfer coefficient is 0.12. The optimal resi- dence time was found to be about 7 min, which ensured high acetylene conversion for not too long exposure time.

Reaction with other iodoolefins

To perform a (E,E)-1,4-diiodobuta-1,3-diene synthe- sis (Fig. 10) in flow conditions, the same setup was used (Fig. 4). The optimal parameters obtained for synthesis of vinyl iodide were found to be suitable for related reac- tion and the 1H and 13C{1H} NMR spectra confirm that (E, E)-1,4-diiodobuta-1,3-diene is successfully formed in the microfluidic system. The temperature dependence of the conversion reveals similar values of apparent activa- tion energies for both reactions (Fig. 12). This coincidence of the two reaction barriers would seem to be the result of their limitation by the step of acetylene iodoplatination to form the In1 intermediate, a monovinyl derivative of Pt(IV). However, this is not a case: at room temperature, we observed the equilibrium formation of the only organo- metallic intermediate In1 [12–13]. This is indicative of the acetylene hydroiodination reaction limitation by the reduc- tion of the In1 intermediate to the vinyl derivative of Pt(II), In2, followed by a fast protonolysis of the latter to release vinyl iodide (Scheme 1, Cycle A). Therefore, we believe that the observed matching of the two reaction barriers is purely coincidental.

Optimization of liquid and gas flow rates

Based on preliminary observations in the previous section we systematically optimize the liquid and gas flow rates, using a Bayesian approach. We followed a stepwise proce- dure. First the liquid flow rate was varied while maintain- ing a constant gas flow rate (2 mL/min) (see Fig. 9a). In a second step we generated uniformly distributed sampling points across both liquid and gas flows using Improved Latin Hypercube Sampling (IHS) [33, 34]. This approach minimized blind zones in the conversion mapping, ensuring comprehensive coverage of the design space (see Fig. 9b). Finally, the optimal parameters for maximum conversion were discovered during Bayesian optimization algorithm. All experiments utilizing the Bayesian optimization algo- rithm are presented. The algorithm itself was employed only in the third step (see Fig. 9c) and reached its optimum at the 4th point. Additionally, we have included the source code for the Bayesian optimization in ESI (Sect. 3). The acquisition function was chosen Upper Confidence Bound (UCB, see Fig. S7, ESI†) to maximize the target function [35] (Eq. 4):

Both synthetic processes are based on atom-economical

addition reactions, and both can be carried out in aqueous solutions. Both of these features are particularly important in light of the current green chemistry demands. The demon- strated approach can be extended to optimize the reactions of similar substrates (e.g., methyl acetylene, pentyne-1, etc.). In addition, various catalytic reaction parameters can be easily varied to further increase the substrate conversion.

UCB = µ (x) + k*σ (x) (4)

where µ(x) — prediction of the target function (picture in the center), k = 2.56 — coefficient influencing the optimizer's

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 2055, height: 1772, bpc: 8>

Fig. 9 Three-step optimization in the space of gas and liquid flows reaction parameters. Red points were selected in the first step; blue points correspond to IHS mapping in the second step selection. Finally,

black points were selected one by one in Bayesian algorithm. The background color in each panel correspond to the prediction of conver- sion by RBF algorithm trained on available experimental points

Conclusion

Table 1 Setup productivity of MF and batch regime

Conversion, %

Space-time-yield, mL/min

ν(C2H3I), mol/ (min*g)

The synthesis of vinyl iodide and (E, E)-1,4-diiodobuta- 1,3-diene has been successfully transferred into microflu- idic regime. The implementation of Bayesian optimization provided efficient optimization of the reaction parameters inside coil reactor and increased overall acetylene con- version to 23.5 ± 0.8% for vinyl iodide within less than 10 min. C2H2 conversion increased with larger liquid seg- ments and shorter gas segment length with the higher val- ues achieved when the length of the gas segment was about triple the length of the liquid counterpart. The overall mass transfer coefficient at the optimal conditions was 0.12. The

MF regime 23.5 ± 0.8 0.39 ± 0.013 1.186*10− 4 ± 4.08*10− 6

Batch regime 9.4 ± 0.5 0.19 ± 0.01 4.742*10− 5 ± 2.52*10− 6

<image: DeviceGray, width: 992, height: 162, bpc: 8>

Fig. 10 Reaction scheme of (E, E)-1,4-diiodobuta-1,3-diene synthesis from acetylene

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2025) 15:197–206

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 992, height: 806, bpc: 8>

conditions. The demonstrated approach can be extended to the optimization of many other industrially relevant reac- tions and catalytic systems.

Supplementary Information The online version contains

supplementary material available at h t t p s : / / d o i . o r g / 1 0 . 1 0 0 7 / s 4 1 9 8 1 - 0 2 5 - 0 0 3 5 8 - z.

Author contributions The manuscript was written through contribu- tions of all authors. All authors have given approval to the final version of the manuscript.

Funding The research was financially supported by the Strategic Aca- demic Leadership Program of the Southern Federal University ("Prior- ity 2030").

Data availability The datasets generated during and/or analyzed dur- ing the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.

Fig. 11 E, E-1,4-diiodobuta-1,3-diene, 1H NMR (acetone-d6, δ): 7.06–7.17 (m, 2 H), 6.72–6.82 (m, 2 H). 13C{1H} (CD3OD): δ = 145.5 (-СН=), 83.1 (-CI=)

Code availability The code used in the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.

Table 2 List of conducted experiments for (E, E)-1,4-diiodobuta- 1,3-diene synthesis with temperature variation # Liquid Flow Rate, mL/min

Declarations

Gas Flow Rate, mL/min

Tempera- ture, °C

Acety- lene conver- sion, %

Ethical approval This article does not contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any of the authors.

Consent for publication All authors have reviewed and approved the final version of this manuscript and agree to its submission and pub- lication. This study does not include identifiable human data, images, or other personal information, and therefore, no additional consent for publication is required.

0.03 2.2 3.8 ± 0.2

0.03 2.2 7.1 ± 0.2

0.03 2.2 10.5 ± 0.2

<image: ICCBased(RGB,sRGB IEC61966-2.1), width: 992, height: 799, bpc: 8>

Consent to participate This study did not involve human participants, and therefore, no consent to participate was required. All experiments and data collection were conducted in accordance with ethical guide- lines and institutional regulations.

Competing interests The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.