Abstract The Pinnick oxidation, due to its tolerance for sensitive functional groups, is widely used in the process of oxidizing α,β- unsaturated aldehydes to corresponding carboxylic acids. The reaction reagents typically include sodium chlorite, buffer salts, and a scavenger. However, the controllability of Pinnick oxidation in the batch reaction process is poor due to the inherent limitations of the reactor's performance. This leads to potential safety risks and necessitates the reaction to proceed slowly under conditions of low temperature and low concentration. In this work, we introduced a new continuous micro-reaction process to intensify the Pinnick oxidation. The water-soluble crotonic acid was selected as a typical object of study. Through the study of reaction parameters and the construction of a micro-reaction system, efficient continuous process was achieved under high-temperature and high-pressure conditions for the first time. Compared to the batch process, the reaction benefited from the superheated condition resulting in a significant acceleration of the reaction rate, efficient gas–liquid interphase mass transfer allowing for effective utilization of the generated chlorine dioxide, and the inherent safety of the microreactor enabling an increase in reaction concentration. In addition, the buffer salts used in the Pinnick oxidation has been successfully replaced by hydrochloric acid and applied to the continuous flow. This work shows the tremendous potential of microreactors in utilizing harsh reaction conditions to achieve process intensification.

system to be used in practical production. 1) Chlorous acid is unstable and undergoes thermal decomposition to produce explosive gas chlorine dioxide. Due to the high density of chlorine dioxide, it easily accumulates in gas phase, posing a safety hazard. Considering the poor controllability of the batch process, the reaction usually proceeds slowly at low temperatures (≤ 25 °C) with low concentrations (≤ 0.3 mol/L), resulting in low reaction efficiency. 2) The reaction generates oxygen of equal equivalence, making it difficult for normal batch reactors to handle. There- fore, the laboratories prefer to use 2-methyl-2-butene as the HOCl scavenger [18, 21, 22]. 3) The Pinnick oxida- tion typically requires large amounts of phosphate buffer salts (> 1 equiv.), causing high post-processing costs. 4) Existing literature indicates that this reaction performs worse in aliphatic α,β-unsaturated or more hydrophilic aldehydes, such as crotonaldehyde [25]. Micro-reaction technology, with its efficient heat and mass transfer performance and inherent safety, can effec- tively broaden the reaction operation window and handle well with harsh reaction conditions such as high temperature, high pressure, and high concentration [27–30]. The super- heated micro-reaction process is extensively employed for process intensification of chemical synthesis, including adi- pic acid, 2-arylbenzazoles, 2-allylphenol and ε-caprolactam [31–33]. In our previous work, with the advantages of faster mixing of miscible phases and improved heat trans- port of the microreactor, Hoffman rearrangement was completed continuously and efficiently through a simple one-step high-temperature reaction [34, 35]. In an inte- grated batch − DIY flow system, Burkart et al. realized the Pinnick oxidation in microreactor at normal tempera- ture and pressure. However, this micro-reaction process did not fully utilize the performance advantages of the microreactors, and had problems such as a relatively long residence time (20 min) and high consumption of sodium chlorite (2 equiv.) [36]. This work aimed to develop a new continuous process for Pinnick oxidation using micro-reaction technology, effec- tively solving the problems of low production efficiency in the existing batch synthesis process, improving process controllability and safety. We selected the water-soluble crotonic acid as a typical object of study. Crotonic acid, as a short carbon chain α,β-unsaturated fatty acid, has a wide range of applications in functional materials and the phar- maceutical field. Initially, we investigated the influence of various parameters (temperature, reagent dosage and pH) on the reaction. However, due to the limitations of the batch equipment performance and the potential safety risks, it was not feasible to further intensify the reaction through harsh reaction conditions. By introducing a micro-reaction system, efficient continuous reaction process was achieved under high-temperature and high-pressure conditions.

density of ClO2 compared to oxygen or air, it tended to accumulate near the liquid surface, thereby posing huge safety risks. While ClO2 is typically safe in aqueous solu- tions, it is generally believed that the lower concentration limit for the explosion of ClO2 gas in the gas phase is approximately 10 vol% [37]. Hence, in the literature when using the batch process for Pinnick oxidation, the reaction temperature was typically maintained below room tem- perature, and the concentration of reactants was kept low to prevent temperature runaway.

Compared to the batch process, the reaction benefited from an increased temperature resulting in a significant accelera- tion of the reaction rate, efficient gas–liquid interphase mass transfer allowing for effective utilization of the by-product chlorine dioxide, and the inherent safety of the microreactor enabling an increase in reaction concentration. In addition, the buffer salts used in the Pinnick oxidation has been suc- cessfully replaced by hydrochloric acid.

Sodium chlorite, acting as the principal oxidizing agent, holds significant importance for the reaction rate. It can be seen from Fig. 3 that with the increase of the amount of NaClO2, there was a significant increase in reaction rate and final yield. The necessity for an excessive amount of HClO2 was primarily attributed to its propensity for decomposition, and a portion of HClO2 was consumed by HClO. Owing to the poor gas–liquid mass transfer capa- bility of the traditional batch reactor, the gaseous ClO2 was almost incapable of being reabsorbed back into the reaction solution for reuse. Under such conditions, about 1.3 equiv. of NaClO2 was required to achieve a complete conversion of crotonaldehyde. The main function of hydrogen peroxide is to timely scavenge the byproduct, HClO, thereby avoiding its reaction with HClO2 which results in the consumption of NaClO2. Meanwhile, it has been proved that HClO directly interacts with the crotonaldehyde, leading to a reduction in selectivity. As illustrated in Fig. 4, in the absence of H2O2, the yield and selectivity of the reaction

The reaction temperature plays the dominant role due to its nonlinear impact on the reaction rate and consequent heat release rate. In consideration of safety, the effect of temperature, ranging from 0 to 25 °C, on the reaction was examined in the batch reactor. As shown in Fig. 2, a nota- ble acceleration in the reaction rate was observed with the increase of reaction temperature. Remarkably, at 25 °C, another reaction time of 3 h after addition of NaClO2 was able to achieve a complete conversion of crotonalde- hyde with almost 100% yield. An intriguing experimen- tal observation was the generation of a greater volume of yellow-green gas, and a consequent darkening of the gas phase, with the rise in temperature (Figure S1). The main component of this yellow-green gas was presumed to be ClO2, originating from the decomposition of HClO2 or the reaction between HClO and HClO2. The decomposi- tion of HClO2 was markedly accelerated by the increase in reaction temperature. Given the significantly higher

The pH determines the concentration of HClO2 molecules, which has a direct impact on the reaction rate. The advan- tage of a lower pH was that it fostered the thermal stability of H2O2 and expedited the reaction between H2O2 and HClO. However, a higher concentration of HClO2 molecules in the solution aggravated its self-decomposition, leading to a decrease in the utilization rate of NaClO2. Therefore, phos- phate buffer salts were typically employed in batch process to regulate the reaction under suitable acidic conditions. A study of the effect of buffer systems with different pH values on the reaction revealed that as the pH decreased, the reaction rate significantly increased (Fig. 5). For example, when the reac- tion time was 0.5 h, the conversion rate at pH = 2.31 exceeded 90%, while at pH = 5.67, it was only 20%. When the pH was 0.84, an obvious decline in reaction selectivity was observed. The primary reason as confirmed was that crotonaldehyde exhibited instability and was susceptible to spoilage under strongly acidic conditions (Figure S2). Above all, a moderate pH environment was of paramount importance for the Pinnick oxidation. When using buffer salts, the issue of buffer capacity must be considered. As can be seen from the main reaction

From a production process perspective, the use of phos- phate buffer system not only increases the cost of reagents, but also complicates the treatment of subsequent waste liq- uids. Therefore, it is worth contemplating how to avoid the use of phosphate buffer system. For this reaction, when the pH was high, the reaction rate slowed down, and when the pH was too low, the raw materials were prone to deteriora- tion. Moreover, as the reaction progressed, the pH tended to decrease. Despite these challenges, we believed that there was a certain feasibility in using traditional inorganic strong acids (e.g., HCl) to replace the phosphate buffer system. By studying the effects of different amounts of HCl (Fig. 7) on reaction, it can be observed that the reaction can proceed smoothly even without the use of a phosphate buffer sys- tem. The more HCl was used, the faster the reaction pro- ceeded. As expected, adding too much acid would lead to a decrease in selectivity. It's worth mentioning that in the batch reactor, rapid feeding may lead to uncontrolled reac- tions, rapid generation of oxygen, and difficult operation, particularly in large-scale production. A slower material addition speed and poorer mixing uniformity can easily lead to a momentary high local acid concentration. Espe- cially when the reaction concentration was high, the acid needed to neutralize sodium hypochlorite may be greater than the acid needed to adjust the pH. Therefore, a faster mixing method was needed to reduce the deterioration of raw materials by inorganic acids.

efficiency, process controllability, and rapid mixing. Next, we aimed to broaden the operational scope and intensify the reaction process by utilizing the microreactor. Firstly, we increased the system pressure to prevent sol- vent boiling and reagent decomposition at high tempera- ture. Simultaneously, high system pressure minimized the impact of gas generation, which significantly reduced the residence time in the microreactor. From the Fig. 8, as the reaction temperature increased, the reaction rate significantly increased. Surprisingly, the reaction selectivity can consist- ently be maintained close to 100%. For the side reactions that may happen at high temperature, it was observed from Figure S3 that the crotonaldehyde underwent self-polymer- ization under high temperature conditions, leading to a rapid decrease in the concentration. After heating reflux reaction of the normal pressure in batch reactor was over, there were noticeable oil-like polymer impurities generated on the wall (Figure S4). In the microchannel, on one hand, the consump- tion speed of the raw materials greatly increased. On the other hand, due to the continuous high-intensity gas–liq- uid two-phase mixing, oxygen, acting as a coagulant, can effectively inhibit the self-polymerization of the crotonal- dehyde. Therefore, the method of using high-temperature superheated flow process for reaction intensification was feasible. For the subsequent experiments, the continuous reaction conditions at 120 °C and 4 MPa were chosen. Hydrogen peroxide is relatively stable under acidic con- ditions and does not decompose significantly over a short period. Therefore, the utilization rate of H2O2 under high- temperature and high-pressure conditions remained high (Fig. 9), essentially consistent with the conditions in low- temperature batch process.

longer played a dominant role, and there was no local enrich- ment of ClO2 in the gas phase. The equivalent oxygen gener- ated timely diluted the concentration of ClO2 in the gas phase, making the actual gas phase concentration of ClO2 far below the lower concentration of the explosion limit, which effec- tively ensured the safety of the continuous process. We also adjusted the amount of HCl for the reaction with 1.2 equiv. NaClO2 and 1.1 equiv. H2O2. Insufficient HCl can slow down the reaction rate, making it difficult to complete the reaction quickly in flow. The continuous process can achieve instantaneous mixing of multiple streams, allowing the use of higher concentrations of HCl without worrying about the deterioration of raw materials due to untimely mixing leading to locally high acidity. This was difficult to achieve in the batch process through dropwise addition. As can be seen from the Fig. 11, when high-temperature and high-pressure continuous conditions were employed, the reaction time can be shortened from several hours to just a few minutes. It's worth noting that the optimal amount of HCl may vary depending on the concentration of the reactants. That is because the acid was used in part to neutralize the sodium carbonate and sodium hydroxide contained in NaClO2, and in part to provide the acidic environment required for the reaction. The higher the concentration of the reaction, theoretically, the less the equivalent of HCl required. At a raw material concentration of 0.6 mol/L, the use of 0.1 equiv. HCl can achieve a yield of 99% in 3 min. To further exemplify the utility and safety of the high- temperature and high-pressure micro-reaction process, a multi-gram scale experiment was carried out by employ- ing 0.2 mol (14 g) of crotonaldehyde with the reaction

Considering the increase in temperature, the decomposition of chloric acid certainly intensified. Surprisingly, high-temper- ature superheated flow process required less NaClO2, not more (Fig. 10). This suggested that in microchannels, due to the higher gas–liquid mass transfer coefficient, ClO2 generated by side reactions can be effectively reabsorbed and reused through reactions with H2O2. Moreover, at the microscale, gravity no

In summary, we have developed an efficient and continu- ous micro-reaction system for Pinnick oxidation. Through the batch reaction system, we studied the influence of fac- tors such as temperature, reagent equivalents, and pH. We found that due to the performance and safety of the equip- ment, the batch reaction can only achieve good results under low concentration, low temperature, and slow reac- tion rate. However, with the help of the microreactor, we broke this limitation, realized overheating micro-reaction process. Efficient gas–liquid mass transfer has enabled the reuse of the byproduct chlorine dioxide, improving the utilization rate of the oxidant sodium hypochlorite under high temperatures. Through the rapid mixing of multiple streams of reactants, we have achieved the great replacement of phosphate buffer salts with hydrochloric acid in continuous flow process. The inherent safety and controllability of the microreactor enabled an increase in reaction concentration and reaction rate. Ultimately, at 0.6 mol/L, a residence time of 3 min in microchannel at 120 °C and 4.0 MPa was employed to produce crotonic acid in 95.6% isolated yield with relatively low reagent consumption.

As shown in Fig. 12, the reactants were divided into three feed solutions, acetonitrile containing crotonaldehyde, H2O2 solution containing phosphate buffer salts, and NaClO2 aqueous solution. Three feed solutions were delivered to the system respectively by high-pressure plunger pumps (SZWEICO, 2PB3020IV). Here, we used a simple cross- shaped micromixer (the inner diameter of 0.25 mm) to real- ize rapid mixing of three feed solutions. Subsequently, the mixed fluid was carried to a printed micro-channel reactor (HZSS, WRC00820, Ti) for further reaction. The printed micro-channel reactor achieves efficient heat transfer with a heat transfer coefficient of up to 1500 W/(m2·K). The resi- dence time can be adjusted by changing the number of series reactors (the internal volume of each reactor is 8.2 ml) or the total flow rate. As for the impact of gas generation on

residence time, it was calculated that the deviation was less than 10% at a pressure of 4 MPa and low reactant concentra- tion (0.1 mol/L). The residence time at high concentrations can be modified using the following equation: Data availability The datasets generated during and/or analysed dur- ing the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.

where t is the residence time; V is the reactor volume; F is the total flow rate; c is the concentration of crotonaldehyde; 휂 is the reaction conversion. A cooling unit was arranged at the outlet of the micro-channel reactor to quench the reac- tion. A back pressure regulator was used to control the sys- tem pressure. The reaction solution was separated continu- ously by a gas–liquid separator to obtain the desired aqueous phase. Unreacted oxidants in aqueous phase were destroyed by Na2SO3, and acetonitrile was removed by evaporation. Finally, the residual solution was extracted 3 times with equal volume of methyl tert-butyl ether, and the crude product was collected by removal of organic solvent. In the experiment, rapid sampling can be achieved using a three-way valve, and the reaction conversion rate and yield can be obtained by HPLC detection of the aqueous reaction solution (acetophe- none was selected as the internal standard). Considering that the Na2SO3 reacted with the aldehyde [38] and affected the calculation of reaction conversion rate, sodium ascorbate was selected as the reducing agent in rapid sampling. Typically, for the continuous micro-reaction system, the flow rates of crotonaldehyde solution (0.6 M), sodium chlorite solution (0.6 M) and hydrogen peroxide solution containing phosphate buffer salts (0.2 M H2O2 + 0.06 M H3PO4 + 0.11 M NaH2PO4) were 4.0 ml/min, 5.6 ml/min and 14.4 ml/min, respectively. Correspondingly, the molar ratio of crotonaldehyde, sodium chlorite, hydrogen perox- ide, phosphoric acid and sodium dihydrogen phosphate was 1:1.4:1.2:0.35:0.65.

