We report a human-in-the-loop implementation of the multi-objective experimental design via a Bayesian optimization platform (EDBO+) towards the optimization of butylpyridinium bromide synthesis under continuous flow conditions. The algorithm simultaneously optimized reaction yield and production rate (or space-time yield) and generated a well defined Pareto front. The versatility of EDBO+ was

The optimization of chemical reactions has long relied upon a chemist's intuition and ability to evaluate multiple parameters within a predened reaction space. In an optimization campaign, solvent, concentration, stoichiometry, temperature, and time must be considered, but the eﬀects of each variable are typically evaluated individually and systematically. To evaluate the impact of these variables, single-objective optimization models have been developed that target a global optimal solution.1–3 Although eﬀective for reaction campaigns targeting

nucleophile with alkyl halides.46 One opportunity in IL synthesis is improving scalability since typical preparations are reported as benchtop batch reactions. By adapting the syntheses of these compounds to ow, ILs can be produced in larger quantities or on shorter timescales than those traditionally accessible in batch. Recently, Doma´nski et al. described the acceleration of alkylimidazolium salt synthesis using a continuous ow and auto-frequency tuning microwave reactor platform.47 The application of microwaves enabled rapid product formation, with residence times under 10 minutes, yields approaching 97%, and production rates (PRs) on the order of several hundreds of grams per hour. Cao et al. also demonstrated a MW-assisted water-free ow synthesis of pyridinium salts on a similar timescale with >94% yield.48 These studies provided conditions with good conversions and yields, however, they both followed traditional small-scale optimization protocols varying one variable at a time (i.e. reaction time, residence time, or temperature). Furthermore, in an attempt to identify reaction trends using this method, the variable space is oen purposely limited, which may hinder the search for global maxima (or minima). More recently, Pan et al. reported an advanced approach built on statistical design of experiments and active optimization for the purication of imidazolium ILs loaded with metal ions.39 This method identied global optimum conditions and demonstrated liquid–liquid extraction of ILs in continuous ow. In the present study, we document the implementation of the multi-objective experimental design via Bayesian optimiza- tion (EDBO+) algorithm for human-in-the-loop optimization of the synthesis of butylpyridinium bromide under continuous ow.6 The use of EDBO+ in conjunction with ow chemistry served to reduce inconsistencies between reactions while enhancing scalability. The interactive loop helped identify a Pareto front, which represents a series of non-dominated solutions of the reaction outputs.49 In our system, this provides insight into the inherent tradeoﬀ between yield and production rate. Impressively, the initial Pareto front was found in 30 experiments out of ∼10 000 possible discrete parameter combinations. We further demonstrate the versatility of EDBO+ to re-evaluate input data when the reaction space is altered during an optimization campaign via changes in the upper temperature limit. To examine EDBO+ models derived from data with diﬀerent resolutions, we explore the model predic- tions based on quantitative lowand high-eld 1H NMR spectra. Finally, we demonstrate our reaction substrate can be extended from butylpyridinium bromide, which exhibits ionic liquid character, to poly(4-vinylpyridine) (P4VP) for the synthesis of side-chain modied polymers using continuous ow.

noted that while the reaction campaign was initiated using conditions in the central region of the parameter space, the optimizer could have been initialized using other methods since past work has shown that these initialization methods converge over time.6,53 Overall, the conditions chosen to initialize the campaign provided an average yield of 15.03% (s 1.74), production rate of 0.21 g h−1 (s 0.02), and STY of 0.20 mmol mL−1 h−1 (s 0.02) over the four data points con- rming good reproducibility of the workow. Aer manually inputting the results from the seed reaction and continuing the campaign, EDBO+ generated a predictive model and subse- quently suggested new inputs within the upper and lower limits of the reaction space to test. The top three suggested experi- ments were then manually queued on the ow system and tested as an iteration (or round) of the reaction campaign and repeated until 10 rounds were complete. The resulting dataset from the 10-round campaign is comprised of dominated solutions (Fig. 1A, grey circles) and non-dominated solutions (Fig. 1A, blue circles) that form a Pareto front illustrating the tradeoﬀ between product yield (%) and STY (mmol mL−1 h−1). As the campaign progressed, the front evolved over time as the algorithm attempted to increase the hypervolume of the Pareto front, dened as the area span- ned by the front and a reference point in the two-dimensional space.13 By monitoring the change in hypervolume aer each round of experiments, one may determine when to halt an optimization campaign (Fig. 1B). Qualitatively, the slope of the hypervolume represents the improvement in the Pareto front, since increases in slope represent expansion within the Pareto front. Large increases in hypervolume indicate identication of other non-dominated solutions and that further optimization is necessary. Aer the seventh round of the initial campaign, only marginal increases in the hypervolume were observed indi- cating minimal enhancements to the Pareto front. In addition, the maximum expected improvement (EI) in production rate (Fig. 1C) and reaction yield (Fig. 1D) reached a valley aer round seven and maintained minor changes in EI through round 10. While round seven showed the lowest maximum EI values to that point, three additional rounds were required to ensure that the campaign reached a state of convergence. This provided a greater level of condence in the optimization results, without lengthening the campaign dramatically. Considering changes in both the hypervolume of the Pareto front and EI in latter rounds, these results indicated that the campaign could be ended aer round 10. It should be noted that because EDBO+ does not inherently identify one particular condition as optimal, the experimenter must still interpret the Pareto front to determine the "best condition" for their desired goal. Depending on the intended application, a low yield but high production rate (or vice versa) may be ideal. In our case, we found that moderately high yields (>80%) with production rates around 1 g h−1 best t within the scope of this work to demonstrate the utility of EDBO+ for reaction optimization in ow. Our chosen "optimal" conditions for butylpyridinium bromide synthesis were determined to be at 138 °C, with a 21 min sres and 0.66 cpyr, which had a yield of 85.86% and a production rate of 0.90 g h−1 (0.84 mmol mL−1 h−1 STY). One

Improvement (q-EHVI) function which is designed to select a batch of points that jointly maximize the expected improve- ment over the current Pareto front. Additionally, we used the expected improvement (EI) function independently as a supplementary convergence criteria metric.50–52 The synthesis of butylpyridinium bromide was conducted in dimethylaceta- mide (DMAc) using a Vapourtec R-Series modular ow system. Pyridine and bromobutane (n-BuBr) were prepared as 1 M solutions in DMAc and subsequently combined via a mixer and owed through a 5 mL peruoroalkoxy (PFA) tube reactor. The ow rates of the two reagents were varied based on relative stoichiometry and time requirements. An aliquot of each reac- tion was collected while under steady state conditions, and then 1,3,5-trimethoxybenzene (TMB) was added as an internal stan- dard for quantication via 1H NMR spectroscopy. To launch the campaign, the reaction space was dened through three input parameters: residence time (sres), temperature, and the mole fraction of pyridine (cpyr). Initially, bounds on each input were established based on equipment limitations such that EDBO+ would not explore outside of the realm of possibility for the ow setup. For example, the temperature bounds could not exceed the safe operating limits of the ow reactor (150 °C for a stan- dard PFA tube reactor). The residence time and temperature were constrained to 1–43 min and 30–138 °C, respectively, while the mole fraction of pyridine was kept between 0.33–0.66 (nominally 1 : 2–2 : 1 moles of pyridine relative to n-BuBr). The output for this campaign was set to simultaneously maximize the yield (%) and production rate (g h−1), the latter of which can be transformed to space-time yield (STY) (mmol mL−1 h−1) aer taking into account the reactor volume. Aer conducting a set of three reactions suggested by EDBO+, the yield and production rate of product were calculated from quantitative 1H NMR experiments. Full details of the workow for EDBO+ can be found in the ESI.† To initiate EDBO+, four replicate reactions were conducted in the central region of each input range (23 min sres, 85 °C, and 0.50 cpyr) and used as seed reactions. These conditions were chosen to ensure an adequate output response while simulta- neously providing insight into the reproducibility of the ow system workow at the onset of the campaign. It should be

contributing factor in the selection of these conditions centered on the product being easy to purify, as evidenced by the 86% internal standard yield versus the 83% isolated yield. When paired with the low material cost of the reaction, this negated the need to push the reaction to a higher yield (>90%).

During the 10-round campaign, we observed that the majority of suggested experiments tended to favor higher temperatures (namely 138 °C) as part of the EDBO+ exploration and exploi- tation policies. This is likely due to the high yields and moderate production rates achieved with mid-range residence times (see Table S1†). At this point, traditional closed-loop autonomous workows would likely terminate the campaign due to campaign convergence. But our human-in-the-loop workow helped identify that 19 of the 30 reactions had been conducted at 138 °C (the upper bound). While our initial reac- tions were limited to 138 °C because of the PFA tubing (which tends to be more aﬀordable and is common in microuidic setups), stainless steel tube reactors enable temperatures up to 250 °C. In an eﬀort to expand the Pareto front, the upper temperature bound was in turn increased, and the reactor replaced with a 5 mL stainless steel tube reactor. Since higher temperatures may lead to reaction decomposition, a systematic temperature sweep of the optimal condition (21 min sres and 0.66 cpyr) was rst performed. Upon manual elevation of the temperature from 138 °C to 160 °C, an improvement in the yield from 90% to ∼97% was observed (Fig. S8†), before plateauing between 160–170 °C. A similar trend was noted for production rates, with a maximum of 2.04 g h−1. At higher temperatures however, line broadening in the 1H NMR spectrum was observed (Fig. S9†) that signied reaction decomposition was starting to occur. This line broad- ening could lead to greater uncertainty in quantication and product purication challenges; therefore, the upper tempera- ture limit for the reaction planner was set to 168 °C. With the expansion of the temperature bounds to 168 °C and concomitant increase in yield and production rate, a shi in the Pareto front occurred (Fig. 2A). By performing an additional ve iterations of EDBO+ (using data from the pre-existing 10 round campaign) a production rate (PR) above 5 g h−1 could be ob- tained (PR: 5.60; STY: 5.18), as listed in Table 1. While higher

To determine the eﬀect of these discrepancies on EDBO+, we generated predictions from separate input les and calculated the predicted Pareto front for the expanded EDBO+ campaign. The predicted Pareto fronts shown in Fig. 3 were obtained by incorporating the input data from each of the four analysis methods for the 15-round campaign into the Gaussian process regression (GPR) model of EDBO+, and generating predictions for the entire dataset (∼10 000 experimental conditions). The predicted Pareto fronts, including uncertainties in the pre- dicted outputs from the BO model, are depicted in Fig. S14 and S15.† Although similar in shape, the Pareto fronts predicted from 60 MHz data had noticeably larger uncertainty values. In contrast, the 400 MHz predictions for both manuallyand nmrglue-processed outputs are most similar, as shown in Fig. S14.† Predictions built from the 400 MHz data also closely match the experimental Pareto front (Fig. 2A) from the reaction campaign. To further quantify the similarity of the predictions, we extracted the hypervolume of the predicted Pareto fronts (Table S6†). The manually processed 400 MHz and 60 MHz NMR data had hypervolumes of 334 and 370% yield mmol mL−1 h−1

respectively, while semi-automated processing tended to reach lower values of 308 and 363% yield mmol mL−1 h−1 for the 400 MHz and 60 MHz data, respectively. Compared to the hyper- volume from the experimental data (330% yield mmol mL−1 h−1), the 400 MHz predictions were a closer match to the

This work demonstrated the application of a human-in-the-loop multi-objective Bayesian optimization platform (EDBO+) towards the production of butylpyridinium bromide under continuous ow conditions. The EDBO+ algorithm was imple- mented to simultaneously optimize the reaction yield and production rate (or STY) of the product, and assist in reaction planning by suggesting new experimental inputs of reaction stoichiometry, residence time, and temperature. Aer only 30 experiments, out of ∼10 000 possible discrete input parameter combinations, a well-dened Pareto front provided insight into the trade-oﬀ between outputs. Furthermore, as the reaction campaign evolved, our human-in-the-loop design allowed for additional questions to be asked, and knowledge to be gained. In an attempt to push the Pareto front to previously inaccessible regions, the permitted temperature was increased and the planner was able to quickly re-optimize the objectives. Due to the increasing interest in low-eld analytics and automated data processing, we sought to compare the accuracy of outputs obtained from manually and semi-automated pro- cessing of high-eld (400 MHz) and low-eld (60 MHz) NMR spectrometers. Results indicate that semi-automated process- ing of low-eld NMR spectra for data analysis can be eﬀective, however, high-eld data is preferred. We further analysed the resilience of EDBO+ predictions when 60 MHz data was used instead of 400 MHz data. Based on predictions of the Pareto front and hypervolume, the semi-automated 400 MHz data predictions closely matched experimental data from the reac- tion campaign. Even when the EDBO+ model was trained on low delity data, the hypervolume of the predicted Pareto front only displayed a 12% diﬀerence when compared to the experimental data. These studies provide insight on the role of data acqui- sition and processing in surrogate machine learning algorithms. The combination of human-in-the-loop interactive machine learning research coupled with continuous ow chemistry presents a powerful tool for chemical synthesis and reaction optimization. Furthermore, these results point to the utility of small molecule surrogate reactions and extension of these methods to functional materials synthesis.

