R2 value of this obtained equation is 0.993, confirming that the model accurately predicted the conversion of the DHAA. The predicted values of the DHAA conversion were also presented in Table 1 which, when compared with the corresponding experimentally determined values a very satisfactory agreement is revealed. Now that a statistically sound model has been developed for the conversion of the DHAA, one may examine the DHAA conversions due to the surface responses. Such results are shown in Figure 5. Based upon outcomes displayed in Figures 5a and 5b one notices that, upon incrementing of the flow rates' ratio (Q2/Q1), the conversion of the DHAA was lowered. This observation is attributed to a decrease of the residence time and oxygen concentration in the reactor upon such an increment. Besides the flow rates ratio, the DHAA conversion was decreased with an increase in the initial concentration of the DHAA (CDHAA0). This was rationalized upon the fact that more residence time was needed for more DHAA to get converted through the reactor. Also, Figures 5a and 5c show that with increase in micro-photosensitizer's concentration, regardless of the flow rates ratio or concentration of the DHAA, the DHAA conversion was raised. The reason for such a behavior is that, the more micro-photosensitizers inside the reaction medium, the more produced 1O2 and as a result the more reaction between the 1O2 and DHAA.

The optimum values of operating parameters were determined to achieve the highest DHAA conversion, using the Design-Expert version 8.0 software and through the numerical optimization method. The determined optimum values for the flow rates ratio, and DHAA as well as micro-photosensitizer's concentrations were 0.5, 0.5 mg/ml, and 1.5 mg/ml, respectively. The corresponding conversion suggested for this optimum point was revealed to be 70 %. To evaluate reliability of the optimization results, one experiment under these optimum conditions was conducted, and the conversion of the DHAA was measured to be 69 %. This demonstrated a successful verification of the RSM analysis.

In this contribution, the photooxygenation reaction of the DHAA inside a micro-reactor utilizing micro- photosensitizers (MB-PSt) was optimized using the Design of Experiments (DOE) software while effects of the experimentally controllable parameters were investigated through the RSM technique. Micro-photosensitizers were prepared through one super facile method enabling photooxygenation reaction inside a micro-reactor. The DHAA conversion suggested under optimum conditions (i.e., the flow rates ratio=0.5, DHAA concentration=0.5 mg/ml, as well as the micro-photosensitizer's concentration=1.5 mg/ml) revealed to be 70% compared to that of the actual conversion experimentally determined to be 69%. Based on results suggested by the RSM technique, when the micro-photosensitizer's concentration was increased and the flow rate ratio as well as the DHAA concentration were lowered, the DHAA conversion was enhanced. This latter result was the goal sought through this research.

